I have used the below syntax to display images in notebooks

 CODESCODES 

This works well when I run the notebook locally. But when uploaded to Git the image is not displayed.
I have tried other syntax like CODESCODES also but no luck.

Please help to clarify this issue. Thanks. You mean the rendered view on Github? Are you committing the image to the repository as well?

This definitely can work, for example the image in LINKLINK shows up.Yes. Committed the images as well. I am having the same problem, images are shown locally when notebook is run locally.

 CODESCODES 

but no images are shown in github repos site when i commit an push all local directory to git hub! HTTP paths use forward slashes CODESCODES not backslashes CODESCODES.

If that's not us, can you point to an example on Github?

Thank youI'm seeing issues with github rendering too.

Here's LINKLINK where I duplicate my images once with CODESCODES once with CODESCODES format to demonstrate this.

Locally I see the images twice, on github I see only the CODESCODES 

I'm using:
 
 images k8s dashboard. png 
 

and

 
 images k8s dashboard namespace. png 
 

It appears Github doesn't like your unquoted CODESCODES. I changed it to CODESCODES and it worked.Great!

Thanks Thomas.














I spent some time figuring out what the problem with my image was. It turns out that Jupyter renders the following correctly and Github fails to do so:

 
 
 
 
 
 

The following fixes the problem notice the absence of comma and the trailing:

 
 
 

Hopefully, it'll be helpful to somebody else.I haven't tested images locally but if you copy paste into the Jupyter notebook, it keeps the image. However when uploaded to git this isn't moved over. Interesting bug will try uploading the images to git and changing Jupyter notebook to look for the image locally.Yup that resolved it. No issue here. thumbs up What is weird is that I have some wiki pages with CODESCODES and the image would show up fine while some with exact code not working.

This code seems to work for me now CODESCODES Is there any fix on how can I display an Image which Is in my repo, and I want to display in the notebook of that same repo, Jupyter renders it well but GitHub doesn't. It shows the HTML code instead.

 CODESCODES 

This is what I have coded for it! Is there any anyway we can achieve it? JuzerShakir CODESCODES works for me. CODESCODES is the relative directory. Khalilsqu Hey there, it worked absolutely well! Thanks alot!
 But is there a way to resize the image in this same syntax of MD?
I did bit of research but I couldn't find anything which works. 

Thanks!I try to use:

 CODESCODES but that does not work for me.

The MD preview in visual code display the image but on GITHUB i get an 404 if I click on the image icon.

Any ideas? zeissmicroscopy Just Try this: 
 CODESCODES 

 Or this Not sure about this:
 CODESCODES 

You can also implement it with HTML, you can resize the image too with it.

Hope this solved your problem!Hi, I have a similar issue with a background image I have in the tag in the css style sheet. I used this:
 body 
 background image: url. Pictures image. jpg ;
 background color: 919191;
 
And neither shows up. Any help? Rico Meyn
Please try this 

background image: url “. Pictures image. jpg” ;I met the same questions too. But the reason of my problem is interesting.
I use the windows's captute tool. The pic format saved is. PNG, however in the local ipynb i use CODESCODES it works well. But in github，it doesn't. when I change CODESCODES to CODESCODES. It works well both in github and local.Filenames on Linux are case sensitive, so CODESCODES and CODESCODES are two different files, whereas on Windows they're the same. URLs generally follow the Linux pattern, but it's up to whatever serves the file how it handles finding it. I would guess tornado just checks if it can open the file, and doesn't check that the name matches exactly.

This was the issue that had led to such a headache on my end, did not realize this. Thank you!Hi please help. I have taken a screenshot of a data frame in python & saved it on my laptop. When I copy the image in python again it opens but in github it doesn’t. I tried using
 
but in vain. I tried other solutions like images image. png 
but no use. Please help. I have to upload images of the screenshots I had taken of my notebook for my report. Please help GurpurNamithaKamath can you share the code you are using as well as the file path? For me I had to be careful about the. PNG vs. png. After about four days of finding out why images not appearing when publishing, I assure you all those days spent on attempting JUST A LOT, but all I do now to update the site with any images or other contents very quick is these steps:

 npm i angular cli ghpages  save dev
 ng build prod base href the link on the repo shown under setting make sure last seg is the repo name not the project name
 on angular 6+ cli do: npx ugh dir projectName dist

every time you update the images, you ng build. as well as npx ugh dir projectName dist

Please share if you have a shorter solutions!
I have the same issue, the jpg does not show after publish. I tried with image data cleaning1. jpg   
all of them did not work. Can anyone help me with the issue?






Try removing the space before img, for example CODESCODES 








I change the jpg to JPG. then it works. you can have a tryI also had this issue on some of my images, but not others. It ended up being how I capitalized my image names in my markdown file. For example:

Image name on my computer:
 oneGreatImage. png 

Image name in my Markdown file:
 onegreatImage. png 

When I capitalized the G again and pushed the changes it loaded just fine.I also have this issue and I can't seem to find the solution. Help?

 

UPDATE: I solved it! I ended up doing it in this format, uploaded the image in the repo folder instead of using the URL: CODESCODES and it worked. The problem is likely that final backslash in the url, either change it to a front slash or remove it entirely.Hi ajharry thanks for the tip but I just tried it but it's not working either. UPDATE: The problem is now solved I ended up uploading the image on the repo folder instead of using the URL and I used this format CODESCODES  takluyver ajharry Hey Guys, I am new to all of this but I am facing the same issue. I have tried pretty much everything suggested here but still no luck. Can someone please help me out. My Notebook and the image I want is in the same folder on Github, what am I doing wrong?
 LINKLINK 

Github Image: LINKLINK 

Also, another Markdown cell below the image where I have included some formatting and colors is not going through. Any clues?Github appears to be case sensitive when it comes to file extensions while Rmarkdown is notPlease help! Jupyter Notebook Markdown Images are not showing on GIt

This is the actual notebook containing images: 
 LINKLINK 

But this is what shows on GitHub:
 LINKLINK 

 LINKLINK 









Hi, did you find a solution? I had the same problem I copy&paste images into local notebook then upload to Github and could not find a solution. However, nbviewer does display images correctly. I'm having the same issue, but some images are working and some aren't, despite the same format being used.

 CODELCODEL 
 is appearing, as is
 CODELCODEL 

but
 CODELCODEL 
 CODELCODEL 
 CODELCODEL 
 CODELCODEL 
and
 CODELCODEL 
are all not appearing. 

They all work fine in Jupyter Notebook when I view it as a Markdown, but when I transfer it to Github, all but the least important two go away and I am losing my mind right now.

 

UPDATE!

It was the 's in the photo names. Apparently they don't cause a problem in Jupyter Notebook but do in GitHub.I was not able to find a solution. But this was a while ago. This images 
showed for me but not for my teammates. If I had to venture a guess it's 
because the images themselves are not actually uploading to GitHub. You 
may want to try hosting the images online and then using links to the 
online images instead of local links.

 Original Message 

To: jupyter notebook 
Cc: Nick Coughlin ; Comment 
 
Sent: 10 21 2019 10:41:50 AM
Subject: Re: Images in Markdown not showing when 
uploaded to Git 3278 
























This is still a problem. I've tried many of the things suggested here, and nothing seems to be working. I haven't found any way to display images in markdown in the github jupyter notebook renderer, despite the images appearing fine when I run the notebook locally. I also encountered a similar problem here where my image is not showing. I used the CODESCODES in CSS as follows: 
 CODESCODES 

When I uploaded the images to GitHub and checked the website on a desktop, some images were showing, some were not. When I tested it on mobile, all images were not showing. I'm still looking for a good fix. Tried every suggestion but images are not rendering in github view but it is renderign in Jupyter notebook.

 cells: 
 
 attachments:
 cell type: markdown,
 metadata:
 source: 
 
 













Thanks buddy, it works perfectly for me. thank u so much thumbs up Hi guys, I have the same problem. I put an image on google colab using: 
 LINKLINK, I can visualize it but i cant do it on github? please help meNone, of the above answers, is working for a private repository. 
I tried both, CODESCODES 
and CODESCODES 


Yep. height does not work when you this format: CODESCODES 

That being said it's the only format that you might want to use. 

This works: 
 CODESCODES 

This does not work for GitHub display:
 CODESCODES because it is missing 
 CODESCODES because it is using style 

This does not work for Jupyter Lab:
 CODESCODES because it is using height I Tried all of these instructions. sadly, I did not find the solution until nowEven I tried both, CODESCODES 
and CODESCODES but none works in a private repo.i also have images not displaying in github.
i solved as follow. 


 this is image flow in atom 


this is in github


RE: Images in markdown html not showing when uploaded to a private repository

If I recall correctly, I don't think I had this issue before. Maybe github's notebook rendering engine has changed recently?

So far, the only solution that worked for me was this aesthetically unappealing ugly snippet:

 CODELCODEL from IPython. display import Image

In code cell run Image ' ' and the output should be the image. Now it should show up on GitHub!Hi can anyone please suggest a solution to why images are not showing with my code?

Here one example in the markdown cell: 
 LINKLINK 

And here is another example that doesn't work either:
 LINKLINK 

I am using a public repository and jupyter notebook. Many thanks!










Cancel this question! I needed to have the images on GitHub and then the second code example worked.









Yes, madpiano. I got it. I was not giving the path properly. Have a look, how to insert an image LINKLINK I have tested most of the comments; however, following way worked for me. 
 build the folder in the same repository with the image name. create a file. gitkeep in the Image folder. upload your images in this folder. Add address like: '''img src 'Image name. PNG' ''' Note: building Image folder is necessary.
Check your file extension in markdown, cause git are case sensitive example. jpg to. JPG Yeah, ransari74 has the right steps you need to follow to add images in git repo. First, you need to add images in the repository then give the path. Absolutely none of this works for me. All images in existing and new repos are not displaying. I'm closing this issue here, since this isn't a bug in Jupyter Notebook.

Instead, it's a difference in how Github renders notebooks. The images must be checked in to the Github repository and it appears the links in the notebook must use raw HTML CODESCODES tags for Github to find the images. 

Unfortunately, Jupyter has no control over how Github renders notebooks; a better solution is to view notebooks on Github using LINKLINK. 

If you have further questions related to rendering images in notebooks, we suggest you post your questions on LINKLINK.

Thanks all!


 i have solved this problem after many try so create file put all the files in the folder and dont upload the folder, uplaod only file on github and in image path put on LINKLINK whatever it is 