Hi,

I am new to Python and Anaconda. I installed anaconda and install Scipy. When I try import scipy in the Python in command prompt on the Anaconda prompt, it works fine as below 

 CODELCODEL 

But when I use the same in the Jupyter notebook, I am getting 

 CODELCODEL 

Please let me know how to solve this issue.
Usually that indicates that the notebook is running with a different Python or in a different environment from Python in the command prompt. Check CODESCODES to see which Python it's running in, and CODESCODES to see where it's looking for imports.
Thanks takluyver,

I see the difference. The path from the command prompt shows




Where as the notebook shows


I had installed py27 and py35 on my system. Can you please let me know how to change to path which is used in command prompt.
try a CODESCODES, CODESCODES. That will likely fix the notebook can see your Python 3 kernel. Then create a CODESCODES CODESCODES from the dashboard. 
 Hi, I'm encountering the same problem here. I've installed successfully tensorflow and anaconda on my Mac OS. Everything goes fine in spyder, while when programming in Jupyter notebook, some modules seem to be not exist and cannot be imported. Error: no module name matplotlib, scipy. 

 Then I checked the system and found:
In spyder, sys. executable is Users abc anaconda bin python ;
In Jupyter, sys. executable is Users abc anaconda envs tensorflow bin python no matter whether I activate tensorflow in terminal 

 Both python version are 2.11. Now I want to change the python path in Jupyter to which spyder uses. Can anyone please tell me how to do this? Thanks a lot. 

See separate issue: 1580
 CODELCODEL 
It works! Thank you so much for your help, really saved my life!


Happy coding!
I tried doing what Carreau suggested and although I was able to then import scipy it made it so I could now no longer import matplotlib which I could previously.
You have one Python environment with scipy installed but not matplotlib, and one with matplotlib installed but not Scipy. Whichever one you pick, you'll have to work out how to install the missing package into it, using conda or pip.

 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 

 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 



I have a similar problem. My problem is that when I launch my anaconda environment and access to Python script. the next line works well:
 from imgaug import augmenters as iaa
but when I execute the same line in jupyter notebook or spyder both in anaconda, the error occur.

In Python script, the sys. executable:' home lqq anaconda2 envs tfgpu bin python'

My jupyter notebook and spyder have same sys. executable:' home lqq anaconda2 bin python'

I use the command that Carreau provide，but only the first one runs well. In second, the error message is:
 Permission denied: ' usr local share jupyter'


Use CODESCODES and look at the informations:

 CODELCODEL 

A CODESCODES flag is available. Or, if you know what your doing, use CODESCODES to install with administrator permission.Thank you Carreau! I had solved this problem!
Eh, I just reinstall the imgaug under the anaconda environment, then, it worked OK, sounds like a joke, hahaha,
Thank you for your sincerity!Carreau,
 I have similar problem. I high light our old HDP version 2.2.0 258 on the screen below, but we have the new HDP version 2. Looks like jupyter pick up the sys. path automatically, where I can find this Jupyter sys. path and what this sys. path name so that I can change this sys. path and get the correct python package

Thannk you for your quick response

 

 
You can manipulate CODESCODES inside Python, for example 

 CODELCODEL 

It can also be affected by the CODESCODES environment variable when Jupyter is started.Great, answers above. I just create symlinks between respective system path and anaconda installation of python, for for example 
 CODELCODEL 
this helps me moving from different versions of the python and making the notebooks work consistently.Hi, same issue here.
Another approach is to install jupyter lab or jupyter notebook with conda install c conda forge jupyterlab after the environment's activation; I mean, inside the environment, so that the jupyter lab runs on this environment and not on root.
May be it's not so much elegant, but is another way and works.i ran the following commands up above because it had up votes and it broke my ability to launch a jupyter notebook and killed that environment costing me hours of time to rebuild all the installs. Its unlikely someone will see this before they try it but in case they do

 CODESCODES 
i have this error please help

ModuleNotFoundError Traceback most recent call last 

 8 import tensorflow as tf
 9 from tensorflow. python. framework import ops
 10 from cnn utils import 
 11 


ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'cnn utils'



 Consider adding this directory to PATH or, if you prefer to suppress this warning, use no warn script location.
how do i resolve this?Following is outcome of my terminal window:
 ComputerVision MacBook: Mac python
Python 2.3 Continuum Analytics, Inc. default, Dec 20 2012, 09:57:39 
 on darwin
Type help, copyright, credits or license for more information.


' anaconda2 envs ComputerVision bin python'


Following is the output of jupyter notebook:

import sys
sys. executable

' anaconda2 bin python'

I think issue is with virtualenv ComputerVision. How to fix this?


So what is the exact solution? I am working on a linux and can't find any documentation from the anaconda and jupyter community. 

 python version
Python 3.8: Anaconda, Inc.
 
 python


' home abb anaconda3 envs something bin python'

What are the next steps?

I was having the same problem. I also have the Anaconda navigator installed. I solved the issue from there.
 Open Anaconda Navigator find Environments tab in the top left corner, click on it. You will see a long list of packages. Click the Update index. button at the top of the list. 

This solved my issueTo install package in jupyter notebook use following instructions:
 LINKLINK 


sys.
sys. executable
' Library Frameworks anaconda3 bin python'

path
sys. path
' Users macbookpro PycharmProjects PYTHONCODE',
 ' Library Frameworks anaconda3 lib python37. zip',
 ' Library Frameworks anaconda3 lib python3.7',
 ' Library Frameworks anaconda3 lib python3.7 lib dynload',
 '',
 ' Library Frameworks anaconda3 lib python3.7 site packages',
 ' Library Frameworks anaconda3 lib python3.7 site packages aeosa',
 ' Library Frameworks anaconda3 lib python3.7 site packages IPython extensions',
 ' Users macbookpro. ipython'


i can't import it in jupyter. i need some help LINKLINK solved it, in my case
 CODELCODEL 

 LINKLINK 

Solved it. 

Run CODESCODES in the terminal, or run CODESCODES in an opened jupyter notebook to see which interpreter it is using, and then we can manually delete these interpreters. Jupyter will then automatically find the other default interpreters the ones with the right packages correctly installed 
 
works perfectly Carreau 




apart from the fact that I had to specify the specific python version.

 for example 'python m ipykernel install' changes to:

python3.7 m ipykernel install. 

As I have python3.7 installed on my machine.

Typing python alone reverts back to python2.

Thumbs up from me! 
just upgrade your jupyter notebook: 

pip install upgrade pip
pip install jupyterI have the same problem by importing ROOT CERN on centos with anaconda and jupyterhub perfectly woking on command prompt but not working in the notebook







following the idea of this post I have temporary solved the problem for python3 default in my coda installation by the following path added directly before calling the module

 CODELCODEL 

it' not clear to me how to make it permanent, any help? I got Carreau 's suggestion to work by doing:
 CODESCODES 

When I switch to Python 3 kernel, it still shows usr bin python, which is python2.

So I had to run the following to make everything work
















 pswpswpsw I do that. but do not looks to be my case by the way the problem is with jupyterhub, not with jupyter, where is working 

 sys. executable: opt anaconda3 bin python
sys. path: first use 
conda install nb conda kernels to set jupter notebook's envirnment
second
change kernel to choose the environment 
importError Traceback most recent call last 

 1 import graphlab

ImportError: No module named 'graphlab'

how can I resolve this? 
ModuleNotFoundError Traceback most recent call last 
 in 
 1 import keras

ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'keras' 
error how to solve it  in error how to solve it
Here is a short snippet that should generally work:
 import sys! sys. executable m pip install scipy 

I have a similar issue here. 
 

 

The paths are different, but one is in python3 and another is in python. 
I've tried:
 CODELCODEL 
But still not work for me thumbs down 
Can anyone help meI am also facing similar problem.



Not sure what am I supposed to do now. Which command should I use in Jupyter Notebook to install quandl in the folder of Jupyter Notebook? 
















Did it work for you? I am facing a similar issue. nikhilrsharma I create a virtual environment in anaconda, then I solve this problem.
 LINKLINK 

After installing the virtual environment,
every time when you open the terminal: you should command: 

 CODESCODES 

then run the jupyter notebook on your virtual environment. command: CODESCODES 

If you want to pip install any package, you should install 2 times:
the first one is in the terminal: CODESCODES 
the second time is to enter the virtual environment: CODESCODES 
and CODESCODES Thank You so much takluyver 


Thank you so much!You are executing your notebook inside an Anaconda environment. Try the following:

 CODESCODES where curr env is your Anaconda environment name.Hi thirumalaipm I had the same issue, this is what worked for me. Check python version on your terminal cmd powershell. Check version on your Jupyter notebook.

 They both need to be the same. 

In order to check whether you are having module installed. Type CODELCODEL, and find the module you are trying to work with.
If it is listed there, it means it is installed.

Then there might be some ambiguity in your Python path or version conflict mentioned at top as I was having.ModuleNotFoundError Traceback most recent call last 
 in 
 24 warnings. filterwarnings ignore 
 25 import syft as sy
 26 from syft. frameworks. torch. fl import utils
 27 from syft. grid. public grid import PublicGridNetwork

ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'syft. frameworks. torch. fl'please I need assistanceAs noted multiple times above, given things work in python directly and not from a kernel launched from the notebook server, this is most likely a difference in envs between the two python executables. Locate the CODESCODES file using CODESCODES of the kernel you're launching and ensure the python used in the CODESCODES stanza is the same as the python used from the command line.

Please check your version of CODESCODES in each environment. If older than 0.1. a1 then the import should be CODESCODES. If its a more recent version, then there might be an issue with the underlying torch installation I don't know.

Also note that CODESCODES reverts both tornado back to 4.3 and notebook back to 5.8 installations so beware! Hello Kelvin, Many thanks, I don really know how to play around, I wish I could get direct command line to execute to clear the error.
I am a novice to python and Jupiter notebook as well.
Many thanks,

 
 


As noted multiple times above, given things work in python directly and not from a kernel launched from the notebook server, this is most likely a difference in envs between the two python executables. Locate the kernel. json file using jupyter kernelspec list of the kernel you're launching and ensure the python used in the argv stanza is the same as the python used from the command line.

Please check your version of syft in each environment. If older than 0.1. a1 then the import should be from syft. frameworks. torch. federated. If its a more recent version, then there might be an issue with the underlying torch installation I don't know.

Also note that pip install syft reverts both tornado back to 4.3 and notebook back to 5.8 installations so beware!

 
You are receiving this because you commented.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub, or unsubscribe.
 Ping me via email located on my GH profile and perhaps we can try an online meeting to get you going no promises though.ModuleNotFoundError Traceback most recent call last 
 in 
 1 import tensorflow as tf
 2 from tensorflow. keras. layers import Conv2D, Dense, GlobalAveragePooling2D
 3 from notebooks. utils import 
 4 show images,
 5 gaussian filter,

ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'notebooks'


Not sure what package provides the CODESCODES module, but this all implies that that package is not installed in the environment in which your kernel is running. 
ImportError Traceback most recent call last 
 in 
 5 from scipy. constants import mu 0
 6 simpeg and related packages
 7 from pymatsolver import pardiso as solver
 8 from SimPEG import mesh, maps, utils, DataMisfit, Regularization, Optimization, Inversion, Invproblem, Directives 
 9 from SimPEG. EM import TDEM




please solve this error Please see LINKLINK. The code that is running this import statement is running from an environment that is likely different than the python in which notebook server is running assuming that import works fine from the command line. My guess is that pymatsolver should be updated in your base user env. Problem: Import on Jupyter notebook failed where command prompt works.
 Reason: This problem usually occurs when your cmd prompt is using different python and Anaconda jupyter is using different.
 Solution: Follow the following steps: 
 Run this code in cmd prompt and jupyter notebook and note the output paths. It will probably be different.
 CODESCODES 
 CODESCODES 
 Run this cmd in jupyter notebook.
 CODESCODES 
 Go to that directory and open kernel. json file.
 Change the 1st parameter of argv, where 'python' or python directory is written with the exact output path of the 1st step, which was executed in cmd prompt. Save the changes.


 Run these cmds in cmd prompt.
 CODESCODES 
 CODESCODES If you're looking for a fix for CODESCODES you may want to look LINKLINK.I can't install geopandas in my work device due to restrictions. It's one of the reasons I started using jupyter notebook which seemed to work fine, for a while even without installing geopandas, but now it throws the ModuleImportError for geopandas, all of a sudden. I haven't changed anything like version etc. What could be the issue?

Any help would be much appreciated.no moduel named Image
It was working just fine then I tried to implement my code in a function and there is an error, I am done, I wasted 5 hours making a simple Program with Python and R
Hi Saad py could you please provide the context for example, the cell code being invoked and traceback information in which you see CODESCODES? This sounds like either an env conflict like those above or a conflict between built in and user defined modules.











 LINKLINK might work for you.