It used to work fine until I changed python to lower version today 3.7 to 3. The jupyter notebook keeps giving me blank page when started. I changed the version back and it doesn't help. No error in the terminal. The error in the browser are as follows:
 Refused to execute script from ' ' because its MIME type 'text plain' is not executable, and strict MIME type checking is enabled.
VM26 tree:1 Refused to execute script from ' LINKLINK ' because its MIME type 'text plain' is not executable, and strict MIME type checking is enabled.
VM26 tree:1 Refused to execute script from ' LINKLINK ' because its MIME type 'text plain' is not executable, and strict MIME type checking is enabled.
VM26 tree:1 Refused to execute script from ' LINKLINK ' because its MIME type 'text plain' is not executable, and strict MIME type checking is enabled.
VM26 tree:1 Refused to execute script from ' LINKLINK ' because its MIME type 'text plain' is not executable, and strict MIME type checking is enabled.
VM26 tree:1 Refused to execute script from ' LINKLINK ' because its MIME type 'text plain' is not executable, and strict MIME type checking is enabled.
VM26 tree:1 Refused to execute script from ' LINKLINK ' because its MIME type 'text plain' is not executable, and strict MIME type checking is enabled.
VM26 tree:24 Uncaught ReferenceError: require is not defined
 at VM26 tree:24 

I check some other posts which said to clean browser caches and cookies which doesn't help for my case. Any idea about how to fix this problem?Me too, with python3.7 at windows10.
And from the log, there's a 302 redirect record:
 302 GET tree:1 1.00ms
I guess the localhost address is redirected to:1.I have the same issue, python3. win10 




We have exactly the same problem in here.Same issue here on Python 3.2, experienced on both Chrome before and after clearing cache and on Microsoft Edge. The issue appears to be that Jupyter's webserver is returning CODESCODES for main. min. js and all other JS files, which causes browsers to reject loading them under MIME checks. 

Edit: It's most likely that this is an issue with the latest changelog item, which involves Content Type option changes:
 CODELCODEL 

Edit 2: Opened a PR with a quick fix. ciaranlangton Hey, thanks for the update but here is the strange thing. I tried the latest version 5.6 on another pc and it works fine. I also tried to modify the notebookapp. py as your pr but it doesn't fix the problem. So I am thinking about there might be something else. andrewsunst sorry to hear that it didn't fix it, is the other PC a Windows based machine? Plus, when you applied the patch, did you clear cache either explicitly through browser options or CTRL+F5. It would also be helpful if you could see what the CODESCODES header is on the working PC for the JavaScript filesWell actually, it works after I clean the cache! So for the one that works, I don't exactlly know what do you suggest to take a look at. Is that something from the browser? If so then it is as follows:
 LINKLINK 
You can check the Content Type in Chrome by switching to the Network tab at
the top of the debug console, and then refreshing the page ideally with a
CTRL F5. The files and requests will be visible in a list to the right,
select any. js file from there, and then on the left there will be a pane
containing a lot of information, under “Response Headers” you should see
 Content Type: 
So I followed your procedure and found the content type in only one of the. js files which is LINKLINK? The content type appears as 
 CODESCODES 
and I checked the value of it which I think is as follows

 processData: false,
 type: PATCH,
 data: JSON. stringify newdata,
 dataType: json,
 contentType: 'application json',
 
The other one is CODESCODES. So is there anything we can get from these?Still same problem. Blank page in either Chrome, or Opera. Either file tree page, or notebooks pages.
Got message in the console after attempt F5 or Ctrl+F5
 CODESCODES 
and
 LINKLINK 
in browser.
Win10 1809 17763.348, latest Chrome 72.3626.121, python 3.1. By the way, downgrading jupyter and it's separate components, included ipython, with pip, make file tree page visible, but notebook page still blank.
P. S. ipython notebook shows the same behavior.I am having the same identical issue here. Both with python 3.8 and python 3.1. Browsers: Opera, Brave and Microsoft EdgeSame Problem here. Python 3.2 and Jupyter notebook 5.6. Tried Firefox, Chrome, Opera and EdgeI have the exact same problem, any solutions yet?I am struggling with the same problemI have same problem with Chrome and Edge. I have Python 3.4 and Jupyter 4.0. I'm having the same issue with both chrome and firefox. Tried clearing the cache, but it didn't resolve the issue for me. Python 3.2 and Jupyter 4.0, installed via pip.Same problem for me.
Downgraded notebook to 5.4, now it is working.
So do
pip uninstall notebook
pip install notebook 5.5
edit: use 5.5 instead of 5.4, see below





Thanks. Old version is working.







Thanks buddy.It didnt work for me, tryed 5.4 and 5.3. It worked for everyone?

Just Clear the cache like CTRL+R or CTRL+Shift+R



Worked, I'm am using 5.5 
Thank you!Yep, when using 5.4 there are issues with tornado version 6 kernel not connecting.
Use 5.5 as alvaroqueiroz suggested, it works with tornado 
So instead do after uninstalling notebook:
pip install notebook 5.5




Thanks a lot! Now kernel is running. andrewsunst thanks for getting back with that, I think I was maybe a bit unclear about my instructions I was working from a mental image of the debug console. Here's an image with the fields and options highlighted.
 LINKLINK 

I think it's rather safe to say though that the issue is caused by the CODESCODES added in the last version, given by LukasLuMueller and other's rollback attempts, as well as the error message in the browser. I doubt doing the above operation is really worthwhile anymore.

Hopefully the PR can get merged so this issue can be fixed and people can also benefit from the security changes in the latest patch. I'd also appreciate it if anyone else is willing to test the patch that is experiencing this issue and provide feedback if it fixes the issue for them after clearing browser cache  ciaranlangton So I checked the Content type of the. js files in headers and they are CODESCODES.Trying on edge, i get this on powershell txt file and this curious message 
 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 

i hope this could help to fix whatever that's happening

w10 pro 1809 microsoft edge
python 3.8 Ornstein89 

Before:
 CODESCODES 

After:
 CODESCODES 






I meet same issue on note 5.6.
It's work for me. Note version 5.6 to 5.5.
Thanks a lot.
Same problem, downgrade to 5.5 and then do ctrl+shift+r to refresh the page works!For anyone who installs with Anaconda the equivalent fix is:
 CODESCODES 








edge works for me



thanks, it really works!



works for me, thxI found on windows it uses win registry HKCR. js Content Type as the content type for js files. It's text plain on my computer.
Changing it to text javascript fixed it.



thank you. it works for me. really nice. 






Thank you very much. it works very well!
ps. after install notebook use ctrl+shitf+R
Google Chrome+win 10






Thanks. Worked for me after restart.

Ctrl+F5 fix my problemWin7 here: downgraded to 5.4 but still blank page refresh & restarted 
 Sorry, it did work I had to restart Jupyter NB twicethis worked for me: LINKLINK 




Worked on my Win10 machine! Thank you




same thing worked on my windows machine, I initially had gotten blank page with jupyter notebook and even re install didnt fix the issue initially. but when I followed this registry edit advice, then the jupyter notebook opened regularly. 




Thanks.
Work for me. Win10 Python 3.8Changing the registry fixed it for me as well:
 In the windows menu, search for CODESCODES, open it. Navigate to Computer HKEY CLASSES ROOT. js ContentType Change value data to CODESCODES  Restart CODESCODES.  Go to browser chrome type CODESCODES, and it worked. Hard refresh might work to.







Great thanks for the instructions. 
 short summary 
Win 8, python 3.8. Installed Jupyter Notebook 5.6 with the blank page as a result. uninstalled Jupyter Notebook 5.6, after that installed 5.5. Works properly. Uninstalled 5.5 after that installed 5.6 Changed ContentType in registry Ctrl+F5 in Opera with opened page It works! Works! nice 
I have created easy to import windows registry file to solve this problem in one click. LINKLINK  Palladiumm, Why are we fixing bugs in Jupyter notebook with registry hacks?
IMHO, it is one of the ways to solve this problem rapidly without downgrading Jupyter Notebook to lower version
pip uninstall notebook
pip install notebook 5.5I think there's only 2 good solutions for this problem. Revert the changes. Imho a bug like this should be immediately reverted if it can't be fixed the same day Fix it in code

I think there could be made some improvements to release management in a product that's used as often as Jupyter Notebook. Things like this shouldn't be open for 2+ weeks.






Got the same problem, and solved by this solution. Thanks!use notebook 5.5
below Use notebook 5.5 and also clear the cache.The fix for this has been released as 5.7For those using Conda, run the following command and update to notebook version 5.7

 CODESCODES 

or 
 CODESCODES 


















It's works for me, thank you!







THANKS A LOT


















worked








Worked for me as well thumbs up Had similar issue with 5.6, updated to 5.7 issue resolvedThis issues seems to occur in 5.8 as well.

 LINKLINK 
Update: Okay, it seems to be working again in 5.8. Had to clear my cache.None of these fixes worked for me, but changing my default port to something besides 8888 worked. I do a lot of work on AWS where I tunnel into that port to use Jupyter notebook, so that must have had something to do with it. Even with that connection closed though, my local notebook on 8888 didn't want to load and I was getting the same errors as above.For me it was clearing the cacherunning notebook in aws, after login i get a 302. help? lanwww I am running into the same issue. Was running from an ec2 instance and port forwarding, and now I am running into this 302 issue on my Mac. removing the config folder: jupyter solved it for me. 






Good job man. It works!I also had the same problem. steps I followed. conda install jupyterlab 
thats all, then it asked me for rebuild, did that and jupyter lab working fine. 