I wanted to open an issue to track and discuss the planned release schedule for 5. Here is what I would propose:

 Cut a beta release once all PRs associated with open 5.0 milestone issues are merged. There is talk about that being roughly a week from now and I think that sounds about right.
 Finish any UI UX design review see 2142 during the alpha cycle. The only caveat is that experience shows that these UI UX design reviews take more time that initially expected. Because of that, I think we need to plan to have a longer alpha cycle that may involve non trivial fixes to the new UI UX. I don't know this is needed, but in the past it always has been needed for new UI UX.
 Cut an additional alpha release once the UI UX design stuff is done.
 Wait at least a few days.
 Release candidate: 5.0 rc.1 CODESCODES 
 Final release.
 Push 5.0 commits and tags to Github, run CI tests
 Switch from pre release to official release tag on Github: LINKLINK 
 Publish to PyPI
 Publish to conda?
 Publish to blog
 Publish to mailing listI think this sounds good, though I would probably call it a beta instead of alpha. I think we can do notebook 5.0b1 or a1 after conferring at the meeting today. thumbs up I was already planning to release a beta today. I'll be busy after the meeting though, so if we do it after that, hopefully someone else can cut it.

I think that 'beta' signals our intent more clearly than 'alpha'. parente want to look at compatibility with kernel gateway.Sounds good! I should be able to work on the UI UX testing stuff later this
week. 

 Matthias Bussonnier 
 wrote:















 
Brian Granger
Associate Professor of Physics and Data Science
Cal Poly State University, San Luis Obispo
 ellisonbg on Twitter and GitHub
 and 
Thanks Carreau. I don't expect anything major. I'll test against alpha beta releases as they come out.cc JamiesHQ I started poking at kernel gateway with with notebook 5.0b1 installed. A good portion of the unit test suite and some manual requests to the server both fail because of the exception:

 CODELCODEL 

It's not immediately clear if this is a problem with the kernel gateway or not. Figured I'd raise it up for awareness.That's curious. The error is coming from code that's meant to prevent against replay attacks by blocking messages with the same signature as a previous message.

I'm guessing a bit, but I think the issue is with the new activity monitoring; previously, messages from the kernel were only deserialised once to be reserialised as JSON to go to the browser. Now iopub messages are deserialised a second time to update the kernel's state. If that happens with the same session object, then it will attempt to parse the same message twice, leading to the error you see.

What I don't understand is why we don't run into that when using the notebook server normally. minrk?HI all, I opened a few PRs to fix some last minor issues for 5. We now know what to do to fix 2209, just need someone to do a quick PR jorisvandenbossche may end up doing that. I have been using 5.0 and things are looking really good.

There are a few other minor issues targeted for 5. some related to documentation release notes:

 LINKLINK 

Anyone know of any other major things that need to be taken care of that isn't being tracked here?

Thanks everyone for helping get this release out!We're closing in on this. 2204 2234 is the last outstanding change to the code itself. I'd like to make an RC1 or beta2 in the next couple of days.notebook 5.0b2 is published to PyPI: LINKLINK re cc JamiesHQ I just published 5.0 rc. Please install it from PyPI and use it for the next 5 days. We can discuss official release schedule in the weekly dev meeting.i should have paid attention, but CODESCODES is not a valid Python version number. It may break how pip interprete wether a file is more recent than another. 

It's better to confort to LINKLINK, but now that it's done don't unpublish. 

We should enforce version formatting at build time. 

Also you miss the wheels, but same things, don't push the wheels now. Great job otherwise! Thanks! You should make an announce on the ML.Also I realise this is because the issue at the top request to release CODESCODES, which is not correct. Rereading pep440, it's not even better to follow it, but it's mandatory:




I think it was CODESCODES a couple of years ago. It's sad that this is not enforced by default with a flag to overwrite, that requires too much implicit knowledge from developers.  Carreau Thanks for uploading a valid version and fixing this with LINKLINK. I will post a message to the mailing list now. 

It's ok, the version you uploaded is fine, and it wasn't me who uploaded the right one. 
The problem with version number not conforming is that soom tools get confused and could see rc2 if we do one as older than rc1. Other tools will see tar. gz are more recent than. whl, leading to some useless extra install step, like forcing user to have node locally while they should not need it. Usually it does not matter, but it can lead to some headache especially during beta rc period.Sort by in the dashboard is not in the changelog. I can't find how to set tags, the changelog say you can't, it does not says how. I suppose it is a cell toolbar, but I can't see it. Style of tags UI is different from the other celltoolbar elements. In particular it has a drop shadow which is inconsistent and the drop shadow is inside the button, not outside strangely.

Suggestion: remove the drop shadow.

It should be in the cell toolbar menu. I'll add it to the release notes.

I don't mind about the style, so if you want to remove the shadow, go for it.

Hum, I don't get it in dev, but I get it if I install the PyPI wheel. Hmm. Have you carefully rebuilt the JS? I wonder if there could be a race condition between registering the cell toolbar and adding it to the menu.

Yes, I did twice, and nuked my main. min. js files to be sure. it's ok it it works on the whl. I'm a bit concerned that it might be a race condition, but it appears to work enough of the time that I suggest we put it out and see if it's a problem.A 5.1 PR 2293 was accidentally merged we may need to revert that or make a branch from before it landed to make the next RC. 2326 reverted that, so the new RC can be made from master.😊  gnestor you wanted to do an rc2, right? I think there are no open issues or PRs marked 5.0 at present.I was just about to cut a new release thumbs up and then I spilled coffee on my laptop 👎. Fortunately I have another one here.RC is for release candidate, not release coffee.














hopefully that is a reimbursable cost and won't ruin Christmas.🥁 punchline sound That's really cruel.













That's definitely some risible comedy.I will survive thumbs up 

5.0rc2 is up on PyPI. The relevant change since rc1 is that the last of the npm dependencies preact, preact compat, proptypes were moved to bower in hopes of resolving LINKLINK 

🎶 First I was afraid, I was petrified 🎶 
🎶 Kept thinking I could never live without an RC on PyPI. 🎶 You know we all want to see LINKLINK dubbed with you singing about Python packaging. P

Hahahah that brings back some memories!Update: I got my laptop back from the repair shop and I didn't fry my logic board!Resolution Confirmed.In other news, it's time to check off that last to do item at the top. And to do that, I am going to create another to do list please add to this if necessary:

 Review changelog: LINKLINK thanks takluyver for putting most of thing together! 
 Blog post: Carreau The Paper doc that you created is archived now. Where should we collaborate on this? gnestor Carreau: I've restored the 5.0 paper doc if you'd like to continue working there: LINKLINK The blog post is ready for a final review: LINKLINK 

Can someone give me access to the blog? 

EDIT: Should we mention anything about transitioning to JupyterLab in the blost post? The changelog reads:



The changelog is also ready for a final review: LINKLINK 

We have 2 small bug fixes related to traitlets compatibility that we could include in 5.0:

 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 

Other than that, I'm ready to publish 5.0 as soon as the blog post is ready to publish.Invitation to the Ghost blog sent!


wrote:





























 
Brian Granger
Associate Professor of Physics and Data Science
Cal Poly State University, San Luis Obispo
 ellisonbg on Twitter and GitHub
 and 
Just read through the blog post. Some comments:

 I think the style of the cell tags has been changed so we should update
that screenshot
 For the file sorting screenshot, we should show a screenshot that has
files with different timestamps and show how those are sorted. Right now
all files shown in the screenshot have the same timestamp so the feature
isn't really shown
 For the table screenshots, it is difficult to see them side, but side. I
would show those like this:

Before:

 

After:

 



 Brian Granger wrote:












































 
Brian Granger
Associate Professor of Physics and Data Science
Cal Poly State University, San Luis Obispo
 ellisonbg on Twitter and GitHub
 and 
Thanks for the feedback ellisonbg! I updated the Paper doc and loaded the post in Ghost, so it's ready to publish. I also updated the changelog with new screenshots and some revisions to make it more consistent with the blog post LINKLINK. This is ready to merge!

I also added credits to the blog post. Here is the notebook that I used to generate the credits LINKLINK.

I am standing by to publish. Carreau I'm not sure how to publish to conda, so I could use your help with that. With the newsletter LINKLINK the table examples at the end are the wrong way round it seems.Good catch SimonBiggs! It's updated in the drafts of the blog post and mailing list post.I just pushed the 5.0 commit to master to run CI tests and verify that everything is passing. Since Friday is not the best day to do a release, I will hold off until Monday or Tuesday.I'd generally suggest we avoid doing half a release like this, because if people see a '5.0 release' on Github, they might get confused why they can't install it. Hopefully not too many people will notice it, though.Sorry I was offline until today. Catching up. Was busy with swimming with this:
 LINKLINK 

Making a conda forge release should not be too hard, do the Pypi one, then update the first two lines of LINKLINK via a PR. 




I disagree, on friday you release and go on week end, then you deal with bug reports on monday. At least people will have thumbs up so you know what to prioritize: Since the tag is made, thumbs up to publishing the release from it now. LINKLINK 