Hi everyone

I've just downloaded and installed Anaconda3 2018.12 Windows x86 64 to my PC running windows 10. When I start Anaconda prompt and type;


Traceback most recent call last:

 import sqlite3

 from sqlite3. dbapi2 import 

 from sqlite3 import 
ImportError: DLL load failed: The specified procedure could not be found.



Traceback most recent call last:

 from notebook. notebookapp import main

 from. services. sessions. sessionmanager import SessionManager

 from pysqlite2 import dbapi2 as sqlite3
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'pysqlite2'

I've already check sqlite is list on Anaconda's installed packages, and also search web but notting found.

I think Its not about jupyter notebook itself, because when I try to import sqllite;


Python 3.1 default, Dec 10 2018, 22:54:23: Anaconda, Inc. on win32
Type help, copyright, credits or license for more information.

Traceback most recent call last:
 File, line 1, in 
ImportError: DLL load failed: The specified procedure could not be found.


getting same error

thanks
İbrahimMe too having same errorIf this is still a problem, you probably want to ask the Anaconda team about it: LINKLINK I've just installed previous version, it's working now. 

On Wed, Jan 16, 2019, 13:27 Thomas Kluyver wrote:












I'm having this exact problem too.UPDATE w FIX: I fixed this problem by adding CODESCODES to my PATH.

I am also having this issue with version 2018.12

 Traceback most recent call last: 


from sqlite3. dbapi2 import 

from sqlite3 import 
ImportError: DLL load failed: The specified module could not be found. 

from notebook. notebookapp import main 

from. services. sessions. sessionmanager import SessionManager 





 kyledmiller Thanks a ton. There are lots of seemingly convoluted threads going on about this issue and your fix corrected the issue for me.Fixed it! Even though it doesn't really make sense or perhaps I have the wrong understanding of how jupyter notebook works, this is what I did:

I just activated my environment before starting the notebook. So I did activate first, before typing in jupyter notebook from my Anaconda command prompt johntiger1 I wasn't using an environment when this error occurred as I had everything installed to root. If you only had python jupyter installed to an environment, then it would make sense that you could only use it within that environment but otherwise I'm a bit confused by your comment. 



My issue got resolved by this. Thank you very much thumbs up After a successful installation of Anaconda 2019.03 for Windows Installer on Windows 10 64 bit Python 3.7 already installed at different path, I passed the command to invoke Jupyter notebook and got this error loading dll. I tried uninstalling and reinstalling it on the default path too, but still met the same fate. I have tried out the various workarounds provided but could not resolve this issue, please help me resolve this.

Traceback most recent call last:

 from notebook. notebookapp import main

 from tornado import httpserver

 import ssl

 import ssl if we can't import it, let the error propagate
ImportError: DLL load failed: The specified procedure could not be found.Thanks Deborshi1993, the solution workaround has worked.Thanks! it works! thumbs up 
















how did you add CODESCODES in your path? LINKLINK 






 Deborshi1993 do you have a link to that issue?








 GiorgioBalestrieri What kind of link are you referring to?











 Deborshi1993 you mentioned there is an issue with the 64 Bit version of Anaconda. Do you have a source for that?














 GiorgioBalestrieri It's with 64Bit Windows version of Anaconda, and this is just a common issue with a lot of Windows users including me and few of my colleagues. Please feel free to share your views if for you it is working. thumbs up 

best regards,
Deborshi




















 Deborshi1993 I think I wasn't clear, I was not questioning whether it's an issue with Anaconda, I was trying to get visibility on the issue thread where this is being tracked. 
I faced the exact the same problem also on Windows, also Anaconda 64bit, but for some reason only for some environments, specifically some using Python 3. 
I was asking for a source because if there is a known issue it should be tracked somewhere, and I'm quite sure Continuum would have someone actively working on it. It would be useful for people reading this thread being able to check the status of that issue and for people working on that issue to know it's cascading into things like this one.
























 GiorgioBalestrieri Yes, you are right. But also for me, I had to go through the threads to find an exact approach to solve this issue. Hence, I wrote the exact process I followed to bring up Jupyter Notebook and this worked with some. I am sorry to say, there is no other source I can refer you at this moment. thumbs up for me, since i used anaconda64 i activate the env and installed,
 CODESCODES 
and it solved



I tried your solution but get the error message below



 ERROR REPORT 

 Traceback most recent call last:

 return func args, kwargs 

 exit code do call args, p 

 exit code getattr module, func name args, parser 

 install args, parser, 'install' 

 if context. use only tar bz2:

 import conda package handling. api

 from libarchive. exception import ArchiveError as LibarchiveArchiveError

 from. entry import ArchiveEntry

 from. import ffi

 libarchive ctypes. cdll. LoadLibrary libarchive path 

 return self. dlltype name 

 self. handle dlopen self. name, mode 


 CODESCODES 

 environment variables:
 CIO TEST 

















 REQUESTS CA BUNDLE 
 SSL CERT FILE 

 active environment: None


 conda version: 4.11
 conda build version: 3.17.8
 python version: 3.1. final.0
 virtual packages: cuda 10.1

 channel URLs: LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 






 platform: win 64
 user agent: conda 4.11 requests 2.21.0 CPython 3.1 Windows 10 Windows 10.17763
 administrator: False
 netrc file: None
 offline mode: False


An unexpected error has occurred. Conda has prepared the above report.

If submitted, this report will be used by core maintainers to improve
future releases of conda.
Would you like conda to send this report to the core maintainers?

: y
Upload successful.

Thank you for helping to improve conda.
Opt in to always sending reports and not see this message again 
by running

 conda config set report errors true



Thanks. It worked for me, even in a R environment.

It works for me! thanks!I was trying to open the notebook in a separate virtual environment where anaconda is not set up. Make sure that you open the notebook in the same base environment.



didn't work for me!the solution is to write in CMD:
 CODESCODES 
then 
 CODESCODES 

















I tried it and it works for me
 CODESCODES 
 CODESCODES neither of these solutions worked for me. please suggest.

This worked for me as well. I copied the sqlite3. dll into the system32 folder. I was getting error messages trying to install the google cloud SDK. This fixed it.  LINKLINK 

This one worked for me.



This also worked for me. Excellent suggestion kyledmiller Thanks a lot. 




It worked, Thanks.



thanks LINKLINK 

This helped me LINKLINK 

Worked for me!

Have a good one




Best solution so far. The problem is that the root environment was not properly loaded. Worked for me like a charm.

Than kyou very much Bruh!

Awesome, this fixed my issue. thanks for posting it. saved time
I tried all above solutions but didn't work for me until I install latest version of Microsft Visual C++It seems that Anaconda python 3. x has the problem, we can fix it as




 Deborshi1993 thank you Simpler Solution would be just to activate base
Open CMD
and type activate base 



Thank you 