Hi just installed Anaconda 2.0 x86 64 for one of my course on MAC OS. 



 conda update conda
 conda update ipython
 conda update pip
 conda install bokeh

 conda version
 conda 4.9

As per the instruction i should have notebook package installed.
But i get the follwing error 

XXXXX Admins MacBook Pro jupyter notebook
Error executing Jupyter command 'notebook': No such file or directory

conda list only has ipython notebook

gsandhu Admins MacBook Pro conda list grep notebook
ipython notebook 2.0 py27 0 

Previously i tried updating jupyter using pip install jupyter and i was able to start the notebook but then there were issues in kernal. So i uninstalled everything and started from fresh.

Can anyone please guide me through this? Thanks in Advance takluyver takluyver 
Hi,

can you please help me in this? 

Does CODESCODES work? I. e. try with a instead of a space. The CODESCODES command is looking for other commands like that.Thanks! jupyter notebook does not work either. ipython notebook also does not work.

Here is the OP to jupyter notebook:
 bash: usr local bin jupyter notebook: usr local opt python bin python2. bad interpreter: No such file or directory

On trying to update conda for jupyter i see the following.

 root root gsandhu Admins MacBook Pro bin conda update jupyter

PackageNotInstalledError: Package is not installed in prefix.
 prefix: Users gsandhu anaconda
 package name: jupyter


Should i just reinstall everything and try again?

to clean everything will these commands give me a clean slate?
rm rf anaconda
m rf. condarc. conda. continuum

Only 1 env.
 root root gsandhu Admins MacBook Pro bin conda info envs
 conda environments:
 
base Users gsandhu anacondaAnother information if it can give some hit. When i used conda update conda first time there is some error at the bottom.
pycosat 0.2 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.02 MB s
pycparser 2.18 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.46 MB s
pyopenssl thumbs down 7.0 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.32 MB s
pyparsing 2. 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.65 MB s
python 2.13 100 Time: 0:00:02 3.27 MB s
requests 2.14. 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.37 MB s
ruamel yaml 0. 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.56 MB s
setuptools 36. 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.46 MB s
six thumbs down.10.0 py2 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.01 MB s
sqlite 3.13.0 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.40 MB s
tk 8.18 0. ta 100 Time: 0:00:00 3.23 MB s
yaml 0.6 0. t 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.14 MB s
zlib thumbs down.11 0. 100 Time: 0:00:00 2.35 MB s
Extracting packages. 
 100 
Unlinking packages. 
 100 
Linking packages. 
 100 
usage: conda command. 
conda: error: argument command: invalid choice: u' Users gsandhu anaconda bin conda' choose from u'info', u'help', u'list', u'search', u'create', u'install', u'update', u'upgrade', u'remove', u'uninstall', u'config', u'clean', u'package' 

I ran 

pip install jupyter and then i can load the notebook. But kernal stops with the following error 

WARNING: root: kernel 188c9238 287e 4a8a a861 2e698cb86e28 restarted
Traceback most recent call last:
 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 runpy. py, line 174, in run module as main
 main, fname, loader, pkg name 
 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 runpy. py, line 72, in run code
 exec code in run globals
 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 site packages ipykernel launcher. py, line 16, in 

 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 site packages traitlets config application. py, line 657, in launch instance
 app. initialize argv 
 File, line 2, in initialize
 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 site packages traitlets config application. py, line 87, in catch config error
 return method app, args, kwargs 
 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 site packages ipykernel kernelapp. py, line 448, in initialize

 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 site packages ipykernel kernelapp. py, line 251, in init sockets
 self. init iopub context 
 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 site packages ipykernel kernelapp. py, line 259, in init iopub
 self. iopub thread IOPubThread self. iopub socket, pipe True 
 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 site packages ipykernel iostream. py, line 66, in init 
 self. io loop IOLoop make current False 
 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 site packages tornado util. py, line 208, in new 
 instance. initialize args 
 File Users gsandhu anaconda lib python2.7 site packages zmq eventloop ioloop. py, line 133, in initialize
 super ZMQIOLoop, self. initialize impl impl, kwargs 

 KernelRestarter: restart failed
Update the CODESCODES package it should be fixed by 4.7 or newer. LINKLINK Same issue fixed for me by updating conda and reinstalling jupyter:

 CODELCODEL I faced similar issue. This is what I did to fix the issue on Ubuntu:

 sudo apt get remove ipython
 sudo apt get purge ipython
 sudo apt get autoremove
 pip install jupyter

ipython seemed to be the problem, hence removing it fixed the issue. akashshah26595 Thanks! That works and helps me a lot! akashshah26595 You're great!
 CODESCODES for some reason switched my conda environment to Python 3. disabling Tensorflow which was installed on Python 3. noo it's not working
The error means that an executable called jupyter notebook is not on your PATH. Since you are doing user installs on macOS, scripts are going in HOME Library Python 2.7 bin, which needs to be on your PATH and isn't by default. If that's the case, you can add it with:

export PATH HOME Library Python 2.7 bin: PATH 

 In mac os x, open. bash profile file in nano and paste this command to it. same to me: macos, updated to 3.7 and then rolled back to 3.5 python, but seems I have some link to python3.
 CODELCODEL 
I have done already CODESCODES 
could you please help me?Dunno how is it possible. the following command was running smoothly: CODESCODES 
why does it happen?Executing 

 CODELCODEL . did not solve the issue. I'm using Ubuntu 18.04.It seems to me as though the installation has messed up somehow. Try running:

 For Python 2
pip install upgrade force reinstall no cache dir jupyter
 For Python 3
pip3 install upgrade force reinstall no cache dir jupyter
This should reinstall everything from PyPi. This should solve the problem as I think running pip install ipython messed things up. hemangjoshi37a 
Thanks
It works for me. hemangjoshi37a 
Great!
totally solved my problem cabric dboyliao It's okay bros. 
Awesome. For me, on Windows, the CODESCODES script does not even get generated searched my file system for it. 

I resorted to manually creating the following file and just running it:
 CODESCODES 
 CODELCODEL 
I'm running Linux Mint 19 with python 3.6.
 CODESCODES gives me the same error: CODESCODES 

I tried both the solutions provided by akashshah26595: 
 sudo apt get remove ipython
sudo apt get purge ipython
sudo apt get autoremove
pip install jupyter 

and hemangjoshi37a 
 CODESCODES 

NONE of these solutions worked for me. I still get the same error and nothing else.

Can anybody please help me sort this out?


 jodobear, have you got CODESCODES error messages from CODESCODES? If so you need to remove those packages manually and try CODESCODES until it runs with no error.Try jupyter notebook
it will tell you to install
 sudo apt install jupyter notebook 
now try jupyter notebook 
works fineubuntu 18: try as mentioned above, 
 pip3 install jupyter notebook
then just
 jupyter notebookI had the same issue. While running hemangjoshi37a command I've received the message that the directory packages being installed are not added to the Path.

I have added my python directory to the Path, ran mentioned
 CODESCODES , and it worked.








Thanks, it worked for me.On Mac OS High Sierra I had to disable SIP. Mac OS system protection that blocks modifications in certain Library files.
To disable SIP restart holding command+R Open Terminal run command 
 CODESCODES 
then
 CODESCODES 
then hemangjoshi37a's saved my previously installed Python 3.7 and Anaconda for 3.7

pip3 install upgrade force reinstall no cache dir jupyter


 
i faced this same issue severely thumbs down, and finally i found it alone 
and its all abt RANSOMEWARE PROTECTION on my windows 10 pro. it wont let u over write any files and folder by third party apps under this protection.
 Open the Windows Security app by clicking the shield icon in the
task bar or searching the start menu for Defender.
 Click the Virus & threat protection tile or the shield icon on the left menu bar and then click Ransomware protection.
  Set the switch for Controlled folder access to OFF 

and happy jupyter Had the same problem.
use CODESCODES instead of CODESCODES what is the wrong?
 ➜ 3 time number jupyter notebook
Error executing Jupyter command 'notebook': Not a directory For me to solve the problem. instead of installing jupyter with CODESCODES as stated on the jupyter website

In terminal, simply do 
 CODESCODES 

after
 CODESCODES 

then run 
 CODESCODES 
 to launch jupyter.

Cheers!

Had the same issue: 
What I did: Try Locating Anaconda Navigator on your Mac using Spotlight Search, 
 Click Launch Jupyter notebook, Works perfectly on mine. 
Also: Do the update afterwards: CODESCODES, then just simply run CODESCODES 
Works Great now 



Thaaaanks! This solves my issue.












Hi. Just a warning to everyone else. Using autoremove f ing ruined my whole enviroment and it wasn't even the solution. 
Now I have a bigger problem.
Thank you for telling people indiscriminately to use Autoremove like it was nothing and taking away our time.
Cheers.I am using ubuntu and i had tried all the solutions above, and they didn't work for me. I solved the problem using: sudo apt install jupyter notebookIt is probably because you used an env of python. And in that env, the jupyter is not installed. Just reinstall jupyter in that env.





works for me. Thx!For those who have tried all of the methods above and still have not get it to work, here is the solution for me:

 CODESCODES 
or 
 CODESCODES 
 use CODESCODES or CODESCODES instead of CODESCODES if needed 

Good luck!ipython notebook 

open this command and use thisif you are using anconda then use this coomand 
ipython notebook
 4960 









 sudo apt install jupyter notebook 
 it worked for me
 sudo apt install jupyter notebook

it will star downloading like this.

Reading package lists. Done
Building dependency tree 
Reading state information. Done
The following additional packages will be installed:
 fonts font awesome fonts mathjax javascript common
 jupyter nbextension jupyter js widgets libjs backbone libjs bootstrap
 libjs bootstrap tour libjs codemirror libjs es6 promise libjs jed
 libjs jquery libjs jquery typeahead libjs jquery ui libjs marked
 libjs mathjax libjs moment libjs requirejs libjs requirejs text
 libjs text encoding libjs underscore libjs xterm liblua5.1 0 libluajit 5.1 2
 libluajit 5.1 common pandoc pandoc data python3 bleach python3 entrypoints





Work for me! thanksNop
ipython notebook

Work fine
😊



















 sudo apt install jupyter notebook 

This is not working 










Thank you very muchyes sure this is running.



This is the only solution that works for me. yeah sure. 
This is working fine. There have been lots of great responses and sufficient success to warrant this issue's closure. Should others encounter this same issue and have applied the suggested tips, we can either reopen it or create a new issue preferred. Thanks to everyone for helping out with this issue.








I appreciate for that, JupyterLab is working with that.
Should I open the JupyterLab always in this way? Could it cause any problem? 
yes this is also working fine. 
 CODESCODES 
 use python 3 and python3.6 .














it's work for me. tnks
yeah sure this working fine

Jupyter notebook stopped working once I logged out and logged in again.
This solution worked for me.








Beautiful. Works great thanks hemangjoshi37a this is also working.
 nhat416 