After the conda installation, the Jupyter notebook does not start. There is a command window, which shows up for 1 2 seconds but disappears. The Spyder does work properly so far. 

More background information here: Windows 7, used to have an older version Anaconda, tried to update but found nothing worked after update. Uninstalled, and reinstalled the latest version Anaconda 4.0 with python2.7 64bit. Neither Spyder or Jupyter launches afterwards. Did conda update all. Found Spyder works but not Jupyter Notebook.Can you get an Anaconda command prompt and run CODESCODES in it? It probably won't work, but you should get an error message saying what's failing.takluyver,
Thanks a lot! I just tried, and found it actually works by running from the command window! The problem looks like that the Jupyter notebook shortcut in the Windows start menu is messed up?I wonder if that's left over from the older version of Anaconda. The shortcut properties might tell you what it's trying to call there may be a wrong path to Anaconda or something.Closing as I don't think there's anything wrong in our code; feel free to keep using comments to work out what's going on.Did you fix this problem? I got this problem as well. Jupyter is launching from the cmd but not from the Windows shortcut. Can you look at the properties of the Windows shortcut to see what it's launching? The shortcut is something that Anaconda makes, so we don't directly control it.i looked at the properties. this is what it's launching:





 HOME Yes, the problem was resolved. The shortcut was the issue. I had to
manually change the Shortcut target in windows 7 to the following:

Let me know if works.
Thanks,



















jap, using jupyter notebook. exe as shortcut target did the trick!

thank you very much! Thanks hlignin. If anyone wants to follow up the shortcut issue, the LINKLINK repo is probably the place to report it.This is my environment.



I've experienced the same problem.

This is the default target of Jupyter Notebook shortcut. in my case 


In here, CODESCODES caused the problem.

So, I solved the problem with following solutions.
Please choose your preferred method.

 Add a new CODESCODES in system variables.
Go to CODESCODES, add a new CODESCODES in system variables.




 Change CODESCODES to path.
 CODESCODES ⇒ CODESCODES 


 Change CODESCODES to CODESCODES and add in system variables.
 CODESCODES ⇒ CODESCODES 
Go to CODESCODES, add a new CODESCODES in system variables.

Thanks for the detailed write up! Someone should probably report this to
Anaconda, because they make the start menu shortcut.

















































 hwyncho great work! Thanks!Hi, 
I looked at my set up and the icons have the following properties:






 this part is missing from the target text due to limit on the taget text box in icon properties pop up: ts jupyter notebook script. py 

Two questions:  I think the missing part of the file path is causing a problem. Would you agree? The second entry is not point to the envs version of cwp. py, which could also be causing a problem. Would you agree? 

If the first is correct, I believe the only way to correct is for me to change my User folder name which seems quite problematic for Win 10. Any suggestions? 

Many Thanks, 

Alan

1. I don't know if that's a problem affecting the actual value, or just its display in the properties dialog. If it is affecting the actual value, it could very well be the problem. I'm not entirely sure what CODESCODES does, but I suspect it doesn't matter that it's not pointing to the one in the env. You're better off asking Anaconda people about it.Hi, I have the same issue here as well, Jupyter opens from the command line but not from the shortcut. How do I inspect the shortcut to see where it is linking to? I can't find the shortcut in the Anaconda3 folder.Just solved this for the windows shortcut on Windows 8. My windows user has a space in the name, so in the shortcut I had to wrap the USERPROFILE path with double quotes as USERPROFILE 

Still have been unable to get the shortcut within anaconda navigator working. JoomSavvy Thanks! Put USERPROFILE in double quotes. now the shortcut is working! JoomSavvy Thanks, it worked for me!It appears your doc and code are not longer in sync for example running jupyter notebook fails. Running jupyter notebook works however.I tried to open jupyter from anaconda command prompt and also from navigator but for both it doesn't open up. Instead of Internet explorer microsoft edge comes up but doesn't open jupyter and gets close automatically. what could be the issue? 
P. S. i am able to open spider. Eyshika if you enter CODESCODES in a command prompt what is the exact, full output you see in the terminal? Just copy paste the un abridged edited output into a new comment.

Even if a browser doesn't open up you should be able to manually open a browser and navigate to CODESCODES.

Also, I'd recommend to never use Internet Explorer, basically for anything but in particular I don't think the notebook works with it.  LINKLINK 

Also, if I should not open it on Internet explorer then which browser is recommended?Chrome and Firefox are well supported. Edge should be fine, so I'm a bit surprised. If you grab that full url that has the token and put it in Edge, does it do the same weird behavior?It works now, with url. i don't know why it was showing error.
But now it's not giving me any output on python3 jupyterAny errors in the output on the terminal you started it from?Hi I have the same problem on windows 10. Both Jupyter and Spider cannot be launched. I tried all your solutions mentioned above, but still it is not working.My problem was my user's folder had a space in folder name.

After creating a new user and switching to that windows user, windows shortcuts and links from within' Anaconda worked fine.

Windows 8.1 64 Bit. Latest Anaconda.

Note: I ended up uninstalling an reinstalling Anaconda but my sense is the problem was really just the space in the windows user username user folder. rgbkrk you were right, It works perfectly now tatullia When you type jupyter notebook in your prompt it must be giving you some url, use that url to open jupyterTrying to update, re installed completely and now I get this error. megamindbrian What is the error you are getting?I tried installing with pip and got py36 

Cannot open


Installed with conda instructions and it works now. Thank you! Might need
to look into the installer code because I don't think pip install works on
Windows.







wrote:















 
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The contents of this email message and any
attachments are intended solely for the addressee s and may contain
confidential and or privileged information and may be legally protected
from disclosure. It is then shared with tech companies, bots, hackers,
government agencies, and marketers. The security of this message is none,
and it may be shared on Instagram at anytime. If you are OK with this,
please respond. There isn't really any security or privacy anywhere. If
you disagree you may want to go camping and talk to people face to face
like in old times.
The error I get is
 LINKLINK 
 tareknahool That looks like a path problem. In Advanced system settings Environment Variables, what does the PATH read as?
Did you follow conda instructions?

 Dear megamindbrian, thax for your prompt response.
But, actually I don’t know how to solve this problem.Try these instructions, and post your PATH variable and what instructions
you followed to start installing jupyter in the first place:
 LINKLINK 




wrote:















 
 I studied computers 

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The contents of this email message and any
attachments are intended solely for the addressee s and may contain
confidential and or privileged information and may be legally protected
from disclosure. It is then shared with tech companies, bots, hackers,
government agencies, and marketers. The security of this message is none,
and it may be shared on Instagram at anytime. If you are OK with this,
please respond. There isn't really any security or privacy anywhere. If
you disagree you may want to go camping and talk to people face to face
like in old times.
The Anaconda prompt is supposed to set up PATH for you, but it looks like it's going wrong. You might try asking on anaconda issues: LINKLINK Same issue here with the latest Anaconda3 build 5.1 for Win10 64 bit. After installing the full anaconda distribution, neither Python nor Jupyter can be launched from the command prompt. I get xyz is not a recognized command. error on the Anaconda prompt. I'm planning to manually add the Anaconda home directory scripts paths to the PATH environment variable and report back what I encounter thereafter. If CODESCODES doesn't work either, that's definitely an Anaconda problem, so I'd suggest opening an issue on anaconda issues.I installed anaconda3.6 for windows 10 64 bit via UI and then did conda install py27. I am able to start spyder etc and change engine from 3.6 to 2. I have added anaconda in the path for my user. Jupyter notebok no longer loading and it shows below error. 

 CODELCODEL You'll need to update the CODESCODES package in conda.install from cmd as pip3 install jupyter
 LINKLINK 

 after that it is installed
 LINKLINK 


Jupyter launch error Your help

 The port 8888 is already in use, trying another port.
 The port 8889 is already in use, trying another port.
 The port 8890 is already in use, trying another port.
 The port 8891 is already in use, trying another port.
 The port 8892 is already in use, trying another port.


 Error loading server extension jupyterlab
 Traceback most recent call last:

 self. run, cwd HERE, quiet True 

 proc Process cmd, kwargs 

 self. proc self. create process cwd cwd, env env 

 cmd which cmd, kwargs. get 'env' 

 raise ValueError msg 
 ValueError: Please install nodejs 5+ and npm before continuing installation. nodejs may be installed using conda or directly from the nodejs websi
te.

 

 Traceback most recent call last:

 func self 

 info get app info app dir 

 handler AppHandler app dir, logger 

 raise ValueError msg 
 ValueError: Please install nodejs 5+ and npm before continuing installation. nodejs may be installed using conda or directly from the nodejs websi
te.

 0 active kernels
 The Jupyter Notebook is running at:
 LINKLINK 
 Use Control C to stop this server and shut down all kernels twice to skip confirmation.
 

 Copy paste this URL into your browser when you connect for the first time,
 to login with a token:
 LINKLINK 
 Accepting one time token authenticated connection from:1
 Creating new notebook in


WHAT I SHOULD DO TO RESOLVE THIS PROBLEM?
Please install nodejs 5+ and npm before continuing installation. nodejs may be installed using conda or directly from the nodejs website.my jupyter progrmme and jupyter notepad is not getting launched nor from windows shortcurt niether from promt commandHii I am a beginner I am getting like this when I am running jupyter notebook can anybody tell me how to resolve it


Hello, I'm getting the following error while launching Jupyter notebook from cmd. Please can someone suggest a path forward?

 
Gayathrys MacBook Air: gayathrydasika jupyter notebook
 Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages IPython html. py:14: ShimWarning: The CODESCODES package has been deprecated since IPython 4. You should import from CODESCODES instead. CODESCODES has moved to CODESCODES.
 CODESCODES has moved to CODESCODES. ShimWarning 
 Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages IPython config. py:13: ShimWarning: The CODESCODES package has been deprecated since IPython 4. You should import from traitlets. config instead.
 You should import from traitlets. config instead. ShimWarning 
 Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages IPython utils traitlets. py: UserWarning: IPython. utils. traitlets has moved to a top level traitlets package.
 warn IPython. utils. traitlets has moved to a top level traitlets package. 

Traceback most recent call last: 
File Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 bin jupyter notebook, line 11, in 

 
File Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages jupyter core application. py, line 266, in launch instance
 return super JupyterApp, cls. launch instance argv argv, kwargs 
 
File Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages traitlets config application. py, line 657, in launch instance
 app. initialize argv 
 
File, line 2, in initialize
 
File Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages traitlets config application. py, line 87, in catch config error
 return method app, args, kwargs 
 
File Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages notebook notebookapp. py, line 1535, in initialize

 
File Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages notebook notebookapp. py, line 1238, in init configurables
 log self. log,
 
File Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages jupyterdrive mixednbmanager. py, line 51, in init 
 manager class import item scheme 

 File Users gayathrydasika anaconda2 lib python2.7 site packages IPython utils importstring. py, line 35, in import item
 raise ImportError 'No module named s' obj 

ImportError: No module named FileContentsManager
  hemanth786 I am getting same error as hemanth.
Please help, in Anaconda prompt, It shows same kind of problem as Hemanth showed.
And it opens a browser tab, which has:
Connection refused: localhost:8888Hey! My Jupyter notebook also cannot launch both through anaconda navigator and the prompt. It shows like this.
 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 
I've tried pasting the URL showing in the cmd to Chrome, but it still cannot launch.
I'll be grateful if anyone can answer to my question.

 dhirschfeld Hi, do you know what can I do if localhost:8000 cannot also open in the browser? I've tried Chrome, IE, Edge. And installed Anaconda twice. In IE you need to go to the Internet Options and under the proxy info there add a bypass for CODESCODES  dhirschfeld Thanks so much! It works well now!Hi,

I am not able to create new or view any of my. ipynb files in the browser when launched either through cmd prompt or Anaconda Navigator. I could easily launch and view files till yesterday but I don't know what happened that I can't anymore. The screenshot show the successful opening of Jupyter notebook dashboard but I am not able to view. ipynb files.
 LINKLINK 
 megha89 did you resolve your problem? I have the exact same issue where I can launch jupyter notebook but I can't open or edit any of my notebooks. Everything was working fine until I tried to install the ggplot library via the conda prompt and now I get an internal server 500 error.I think Anti virus is blocking your application. When you installed
Anaconda a screen pops up stating do you want to allow the application to
access outside. You might have cancelled that screen which is why you may
be facing the problem. Disable antivirus and launch jupyter. If it doesnt
work again. Please uninstall the software and reinstall once again, this
time carefully see each screen.
Rgds
Prasad

























 
Prasad K
Mobile: 98456 98426
Thanks transtrades, I tried that but didn't seem to resolve the problem. I'll have to uninstall and reinstall. Any chance you know of an easy way to archive all my files before I uninstall?Did you try from start menu? Go to Windows Start Anaconda3 Jupyter and
open. It may open Jupyter after a minute.

If you want to reinstall, Your files will not be lost if you have saved
them in some folder with a name and not as Untitled1, Untitled2. Untitled
files get lost.

Better transfer all the code files to a backup drive such as D or E. or
pen drive.



When you uninstall there will still be traces of the software in folders
under your Users. There will be minor folders such as. anaconda, conda, spyder. just delete them using Shift + del.

Restart the system and then reinstall anaconda. It is advisable to install

while installing.

Reason you will need to add libraries later using cmd command prompt It

install the libraries.

While installing you will get a java pop up asking that a program is trying
to access outside, do you want to allow? you check the options and say Yes

After Jupyter is installed, go to Start Anaconda3 Jupyter Notebook. It
will take a minute opens and gives out a weblink on cmd prompt. copy the
same and paste it on chrome netscape internet explorer and Jupyter will
open on the browser.

Rgds
Prasad


















 
Prasad K
Mobile: 98456 98426
I tried launching from the start menu, from the anaconda navigator, and from the conda prompt. Each time I am able to launch the Jupyter NOtebook tree but when I try to open a python notebook I get the 500: Internal Server error. And this is what I see in the prompt:


 web. asynchronous
 AttributeError: module 'tornado. web' has no attribute 'asynchronous'
 
 Host: localhost:8888,
 Connection: keep alive,
 Upgrade Insecure Requests: 1,
 User Agent: Mozilla 5.0 Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64 AppleWebKit 537.36 KHTML, like Gecko Chrome 72.3626.121 Safari 537.36,
 Accept: text html, application xhtml+xml, application xml;q 0. image webp, image apng, ;q 0.
 Referer: LINKLINK,
 Accept Encoding: gzip, deflate, br,
 Accept Language: en US, en;q 0.

 
 500 GET notebooks DSC 478 Project Norm 20and 20weight. ipynb:1 204.49ms referer LINKLINK 
Pls go to start. Select Anaconda Command prompt, Right click and open as
administrator. In the command prompt type pip install upgrade jupyter
and press enter. See whether it works
Rgds
Prasad













































 
Prasad K
Mobile: 98456 98426
If your jupyter doen't open, dont bother. You can use google collab which
gives free jupyter interface for programming. you will be working on google
hosted server. you can work from laptop or mobile and you just need to have
internet connection and gmail account. You can work at a stretch for 8
hours. visit LINKLINK and open your account. Then
go and open new jupyter notebook and do coding.

Rgds
Prasad

On Fri, Mar 22, 2019 at 10:28 AM Prasad K wrote:


























































 
Prasad K
Mobile: 98456 98426
Awesome, thanks!





































































































I had same problem. Conda didn't launch jupyter notebook. I found a hard way and I can open now. My solution is: 
1 Open Anaconda Navigator


copy and paste this your browser and done. I hope it will be helpfullTraceback most recent call last:

 from notebook. notebookapp import main

 from zmq. eventloop import ioloop

 from zmq import backend

 reraise exc info 

 raise value

 ns select backend first 

 mod import name, fromlist public api 

 from. import constants, error, message, context,


I am getting this errorhi i ve been trying to launch jupyter and spyder both don't work. I tried to open through command prompt there is no response for indefinite time. tried to install notebook from pip too. 
using a win 10 64 bit os.
Is this the first time? You have cancelled a small screen which would have
said. Python is trying to contact external site. That's why you are not
able to open. Restart, try to open spider or Jupiter. If you get that
message, enable it. Then spyder Jupiter will open. If you dont get the
screen. Uninstall and reinstall anaconda. This time if a small screen pops
up python is trying to contact external site, enable it





















First time working with jupyter? no.
no, did not get any sort of popup screen, have already tried uninstalling and reinstalling a couple of times what changed this time was spyder launched till completion of code for python but i still couldnt access the environment. when i try to close anaconda navigator it prompts that notebook and spyder are running. i tried manually accessing localhost: port with all the browsers. thanks for the response though.

What's your RAM & CPU configuration, Usually spyder takes 3 minutes to
start. Jupiter also takes a minute or two.

For spyder wait for 3 4 min. Incase of jupyterwhen you click on Jupiter in
START menu a popup command prompt opens. Move your mouse cursor inside that
command window and press enter. It will show some messages and opens in
your browser





































Your firewall is blocking python

On Thu, Jun 18, 2020, 10:29 Prasad K wrote:
















































Python 3.9 tags v3.9:13c94747c7, Aug 17 2020, 18:58:18 on win32
Type help, copyright, credits or license for more information.

























































Requirement already satisfied: importlib metadata; python version 2.4 nbformat 4.0 ipywidgets jupyter 2.0 








Even though everything is satisfied jupyter notebook not opening in browser. its just stuck over there in command problem. I could not even type anything. There is absolutely no response in command prompt. I used pip for installation on windows 10 64 bit.
 Please anybody has any solution? I will be really grateful because I m doing this since yesterday and stuck at it.
Thank You.
 LINKLINK 

































































































































































































































































Your firewall and antivirus would be blocking python. If you allow python
to be connected to internet by providing exception in antivirus or firewall
you will not face problem.

Instead of installing python in your computer, try using cloud version of
python in google colab. It is free but you need internet
colab. research. google. com



















































































































































































































Thank you Transtrades, your information is really helpfulThank you so much for the reply and your information is really helpful.


wrote:







































































































































































































































Hi, i have encounted this error while trying to launch jupyter notebook. Please help.

Traceback most recent call last:

 from notebook. notebookapp import main

 from zmq. eventloop import ioloop

 from zmq import backend

 raise original error from None

 ns select backend first 

 mod import module name 

 return bootstrap. gcd import name, package, level 

 from. import 


 


















Hi did you manage to solve this error? What did you do?Looks like jupyter is not installed properly.

If you have installed Anaconda, try opening jupyter from Anaconda Navigator.

Another attempt type localhost:8080 or localhost:8888 in your browser



Use google colab which has jupyter on cloud at research. google. com

On Sat, 13 Mar, 2021, 20:28 Cherylcxq, wrote:













































Sorry research. colab. google. com

On Sat, 13 Mar, 2021, 20:37 Prasad K, wrote:




























































I have problem but when I open jupter notebook. exe its work but I have other problem how I can connect with anacondaUninstall all



After installation is complete when you launch jupyter your application may
be blocked by firewall or antivirus. Pls enable it to connect to internet



On Sat, 13 Mar, 2021, 11:39 Cherylcxq, wrote:




















































