 System information
 Have I written custom code as opposed to using a stock example script provided in TensorFlow: N A
 OS Platform and Distribution for example, Linux Ubuntu 16.04: macOS 10.13
 TensorFlow installed from source or binary: binary
 TensorFlow version use command below: 1.8
 Python version: 3.7
 Bazel version if compiling from source: N A
 GCC Compiler version if compiling from source: N A
 CUDA cuDNN version: N A
 GPU model and memory: N A
 Exact command to reproduce: CODESCODES 

 Describe the problem
Installing TensorFlow on Python3.7 with pip failed. Please see the failure log below.


 Source code logs



I installed it successfully by CODESCODES. However, it seems that this wheel is not Python 3.7 compatible. The problem is that CODESCODES contains CODESCODES as variable names but CODESCODES becomes a keyword in python3.7 so it's no longer available. 

Also, I noticed that the URL is only for Python 3. 3. 3.6 but I can't find any other URLs. So probably we need to wait for the official Python 3.7 compatible package. Thank you for identifying the cause!still can't install it with python3.7
 CODELCODEL same here. thumbs up Any update? chriss mbp: chris pip3 install tensorflow
Collecting tensorflow
 Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement tensorflow from versions: 
No matching distribution found for tensorflow

Any update on a fix for this? Thank you.Why was this issue closed?Has the problem with this wheel LINKLINK been fixed? Or rather what is the new link version?because of python 3.7 fully release, all production opencv are death because of tensorflow are incompatible. HELP pls!

 Same issue here. would be awesome to know when a fix is going to be available for this issue thumbs up This is preventing me from upgrading several projects to 3. fix ETA would be great. richardARPANET issue is we won't know what will happen before upgrade python 3. because nobody will go and check each module either it is compatible or not.

And due to that, after upgrade to python 3. everything become nightmare. thuyen isn't that why automated tests exist?same here.Same issue here too.Same issue here. Such a shame because I want to use it in cloud functions of GCP, which only supports 3.7 ATM.  christiaanleysen works fine on 3.7 with some minor tweaks and patches if you're willing to build yourself: LINKLINK that's work for me
just try to use this one below 
pip install LINKLINK How to build tendorflow gpu with fix for python 3. bstriner  Mahamatnour 
It doesn't work for me. It works fine for me by using command:
 CODESCODES 

Please see doc from LINKLINK problem are not on mac platform!

all current problem are for linux platform, if you are using mac, no need to report it here, due to that mac platform got no issue at all thyeun please, see natsukium's plateform. I just answered him because i had the same error int the output. and with the same plateform.  Browny75 please, i'm not said that on you, just to make sure mac users got no problem on python 3. the only problem are for linux users! don't mis understanding my comment. thyeun no such thing as understand or misunderstand, cu, thinking any is okFor what it's worth here is the repo to build the docker image with 3.7 and Tensorflow which works but takes a looong time to build: LINKLINK  SukeshP1995 should be detailed in the links but let me know if you have issues. The main changes are in the repository now, but you still have to modify CODESCODES to update and patch eigen and protobuf.

 vmarkovtsev maybe check how many threads are running. Sometimes way off in docker. Tries to run 1k threads on 8 cpus. 
 bstriner I successfully build locally, it takes to much time to build on Dockerhub and there is a hard limit. If you want dockerhub builds, chain multiple images


wrote:












90 of the time is taken by CODESCODES bstrinerHypothetically, run some of the subprojects individually beforehand in one
image, then make the package in another and those dependencies won't be
rebuilt, but probably more pain than it is worth. TF team doesn't want to
merge dependencies on unofficial releases, so the biggest barrier to
official 3.7 builds for all OS is to debug protobuf and eigen. But if you
care about 3. you probably also want to build from source anyways to get
the right optimizations.


wrote:












I don't want to say exploit the good people at dockerhub, but I have had
projects were I needed a chain of 3 4 images to build pytorch and a ton of
related software. It was for the public good TAing a class. As long as
you aren't constantly rebuilding and you're doing something good with it,
make as many steps as you need.

On Thu, Aug 30, 2018 at 4:22 PM Benjamin Striner wrote:
























I found this to work after searching for a while. I will leave this here as it might be useful for someone.

Tensorflow only supports Python 3.6 as of today. You can install a different version of python alongside your standard one. You need to:
 Download the Python3.6 tgz file from the official website eg. Python 3.6. tgz 
 Unpack it with CODESCODES 
 CODESCODES 
 run CODESCODES 
 run CODESCODES to install it CODESCODES vs CODESCODES explanation here LINKLINK 

You'll normally find your new python install under CODESCODES. Now you can create a new virtualenv specifying the python version with:
 CODESCODES 
 Get into the virtualenv running the command CODESCODES.
 Install tensorflow with the classic CODESCODES 
 Profit






works for me!Installation works as described above by liutingchen, but when I run CODESCODES I still get errors. is my home path:

 CODESCODES 

 Traceback most recent call last:
 File, line 1, in 
 File. python3 env lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow init. py, line 22, in 
 from tensorflow. python import pywrap tensorflow pylint: disable unused import
 File. python3 env lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow python init. py, line 49, in 
 from tensorflow. python import pywrap tensorflow
 File. python3 env lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow python pywrap tensorflow. py, line 58, in 
 from tensorflow. python. pywrap tensorflow internal import 
 File. python3 env lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow python pywrap tensorflow internal. py, line 114
 def TFE ContextOptionsSetAsync arg1, async:
 
SyntaxError: invalid syntax I installed using:
pip3 install LINKLINK 

However, The script running is getting: TFE ContextOptionsSetAsync 

Traceback most recent call last:
 File yolo. py, line 11, in 
 from keras import backend as K
 File usr local lib python3.7 site packages keras init. py, line 3, in 
 from. import utils
 File usr local lib python3.7 site packages keras utils init. py, line 6, in 
 from. import conv utils
 File usr local lib python3.7 site packages keras utils conv utils. py, line 9, in 
 from. import backend as K
 File usr local lib python3.7 site packages keras backend init. py, line 89, in 
 from. tensorflow backend import 
 File usr local lib python3.7 site packages keras backend tensorflow backend. py, line 5, in 
 import tensorflow as tf
 File usr local lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow init. py, line 24, in 
 from tensorflow. python import pywrap tensorflow pylint: disable unused import
 File usr local lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow python init. py, line 49, in 
 from tensorflow. python import pywrap tensorflow
 File usr local lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow python pywrap tensorflow. py, line 58, in 
 from tensorflow. python. pywrap tensorflow internal import 
 File usr local lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow python pywrap tensorflow internal. py, line 114
 def TFE ContextOptionsSetAsync arg1, async:



That is good, but CODELCODEL has failed via python version 3. it seems that this wheel is not Python 3.7 compatible. The problem is that tensorflow python pywrap tensorflow internal. py contains async as variable names but async becomes a keyword in python3.7 so it's no longer available. Same Problem here on Mac OSX and python 3.7 anaconda 
 def TFE ContextOptionsSetAsync arg1, async:
 
SyntaxError: invalid syntax 

Any update from a Tensorflow maintainer? Can you please reopen the issue? 

Btw, I recommend to people to downgrade python version to 3.6 on conda: 
 CODESCODES This should be fixed by 21202.same question as the whole above has it fixed or updated?TL;DR if you want the TF official packages to work, bug eigen and protobuf to make new releases.

Has been fixed on master for a while but if you're waiting for a release that supports py3.7 it might be a little bit. So basically, until you see a post here saying that that has happened, the official pip install isn't going to work, but you can:
 build from source 21202 
 use an unofficial wheel some links were in this thread 

Last eigen release was 23.07.2018 and last protobuf release was Jul 31 as of this posting AFAIK. Both need fixes to support py3. I think as of now those fixes are in master but not in releases, but I could be wrong. TF isn't going to release an official package that depends on unreleased or patched third party stuff if it can be avoided.

I'm not really involved in either of those two libraries so I'm curious about the status of those issues, too. TF problems are easy to fix and release. Third party libraries not so much. If it was just TF problems, then Python 3.7 would've been supported officially in no time.Found a some related links:
 LINKLINK 
 LINKLINK 

No idea what the eigen status is TBH.

Still unable to install TensorFlow on Python3.7 with pip. Perhaps should keep the issue open util a wheel is released.For those on macOs like me, you can use brew to temporarily switch back to 3.5: LINKLINK. I had to do
 CODESCODES in addition and then
 CODESCODES works fine
Well done thanks, tensorflow is not available anymore in python 3. Stay waiting for the release.

For other people who may encounter this issue: create an new env with python 3.I use Docker to run tensorflow, so it is not a problem for me. Just pointing out that we should always follow the latest standard of a language, even it changes rapidly.Any update about pip install tensorflow?Here's a simple trick to get things working with 3. but only if you're a tough moth r who doesn't give a shit if things break:

 CODELCODEL 
 or whatever the correct wheel is 
and:
 CODELCODEL 









Hi, Harpone.

I tried your trick, but I received this message:

 home adriano anaconda3 lib python3.7 importlib bootstrap. py:219: RuntimeWarning: compiletime version 3.6 of module 'tensorflow. python. framework. fast tensor util' does not match runtime version 3.7
 return f args, kwds 

but. I saw that I don't receive an error message when I import the tensorflow module in my script.
pip install upgrade LINKLINK 
that's which i use, python 3.7 on windows and it works.


Worked for me, python 3.7 on Mac.


Worked for me too on Mac, thanks!Why closed?
 CODESCODES still no worky.

 CODESCODES successful, but not the simple n00b friendly install.

aside: CODESCODES is removed, if that's in your checkscripts; 
 CODESCODES 
pip install upgrade LINKLINK 

Is this version 0.12 or 1.12?pip install tensorflow not working on OS X python 3.7
Fix from this thread shows version 0.12. 


'0.12.0'? 








I second that. This 0.12. version also breaks compatibility with keras. Even to the point where keras does not throw any warning or error messages but just refuses to learn.

I just solved my issue by installing conda miniconda3 to be precise, then using that to install a virtualenv with python 3.5, and in that installed both tf and keras. Now my model learns.I'm almost certain the 0.12 is because of a typo in the original comment. Installing LINKLINK works for me:

 CODELCODEL 

Note that the CODESCODES is just a warning.




Got this, thx! Worked for me, same warning with no difference. CODELCODEL 
pip install upgrade LINKLINK 
not work for python 3.1
























There's a typo in running the virtual env command. It should be CODESCODES I had same issue. Try this:

 Downgrade your python from 3.7 to 3.6 if using conda virtual env, create a new virtual env with ' conda create n yourenvname python 3.6 anaconda' 
 Then 'pip install tensorflow gpu'

should be worked.If you're using x86 64 and any Linux distro, then you can find below GitHub repo to be useful.

 LINKLINK 

I have tried and successfully installed into my machine.

 CODELCODEL 

If you want Tensorflow + GPU build, then you can choose which one you want using above Github repo page.

Cheers.


Just want you to know that this worked fantastically. Thanks!Any suggestions for linux?

 CODELCODEL 
tensorflow thumbs down.12.0 cp36 cp36m linux x86 64. whl is not a supported wheel on this platform. somebody could help me!
I've already installed python 3.1 wanna install tensor flow but i can't 
any one who could tell me how to fix this problem 




Hi Nasser, unfortunately Tensorflow doesn't work with Python v3.7 yet. You'll have to uninstall, go into Python's website and install Python v3. The good thing is there are not many differences thumbs up Just be sure to reinstall all your packages. I personally took a screenshot of all my packages for example go into command prompt, and type in pip list, then take a screenshot and referred to them to install everything again.

Cheers









Thankswhen will tensorflow be supported for python 3.2?try 

python3 m pip install upgrade LINKLINK 



Well this doesn't work for me. After the download with pip finished it says no module named tensorflowOkay guys. Spent two hours. Quick workaround for now: It's as simple as. Use CODESCODES for now. Launch your tensorflow based applications with the full path to the older python executable.

 CODELCODEL 

Just make sure you manage to install this python version using homebrew or some other way. Now everything else can use regular up to date python 3. while we wait for TensorFlow devs to fix this.  PiotrWegrzyn,

See if the following works for you:
 CODESCODES  shahril96 

Your solution worked for me on arch linux, thank you!even if you successful install tensorflow1.12 in python 3. it'll get some unexpected error like:
'tf. constant 5 ' get 'UnboundLocalError: local variable 'self' referenced before assignment'When can we expect to have Tensorflow for Python 3.7 on PIP? When you include it in another package as a dependency other options do not work. TensorFlow will have a 3.7 on pip when its dependencies have one. This, in particular, means protobuf. There are patches for protobuf making it possible to work on 3.7 since November, roughly, but there hasn't been a release yet. It seems difficult to support python3. It's been months and still no progress thumbs up  thumbs up  thumbs up Python group insists on releasing breaking language changes with a minor version bump.I thought Python was done with these breaking changes. But come on Google async as a variable name?
I just wanted to highlight that posting thumbs up or loosely connected remarks will spam mailboxes of about 65 people watching this thread I bet many hope that the next notification will say that we got a release for Python 3.

To subscribe to notifications without writing a comment one can click subscribe button on the top right of the page. I think that the numer of subsribers will be as good indication of interst in this problem to the maintatiners as writing thumbs up but without notifying everyone else. Thank you thumbs up 

Also, here is another highlight: CODESCODES was actually introduced in Python 3. released in September 2015 which was more than three years ago. And they had warned:

So I believe we can follow an actual open ticket for this at 25429 


















This worked for me:

python m pip install LINKLINK Hey guys, I believe that this is fixed on the latest python pip

 CODELCODEL 

Here is the log of the install
 CODELCODEL 

and the results

 CODELCODEL 

unrelated.
 campanelli resonon Hey! Sure is cold outside thumbs up I got this error when I tried to install tensorflow on Ubuntu and Python3. any help, please. I have posted a similar question last week.
 LINKLINK 
I'm running Ubuntu on Oracle Virtual Box running on Windows 10, and python3. I got same install tensorflow error message above even when I changed the URL path to linjx and Mac. Apology: for the typo, I meant to linux, and mac.Any update?
On the window system with installed python 3.2
I type the command pip install tensoflow not pip install tensorflow and it worked.
This is fixed, we're publishing 3.7 binaries to pypi. If you are seeing problems, please open a new issue. Hi mejimaru

 That install complete successfully, but tensoflow is the same as
Tensorflow? have same functionality, I have not used tensoflow before. 
 Many Thanks for your support! 

 Salih 


wrote:












Hi mejimaru

That install complete successfully, but tensoflow is the same as Tensorflow? have same functionality, I have not used tensoflow before. 
Many Thanks for your support!

So does this mean that I need to batch upgrade my current python version to 3.7 to solve my tensorflow install error I have posted above. My current python version on Ubuntu 16.04 is Python3. Thanks for info!Please find the appropriate issue for your problem. This issue is about 3.
Hi
This one worked for me on Python 3.2:
sudo pip3 install
 LINKLINK 
 


Best Regards,
Salih




















I was able to install tensorflow without error on Python3.2, but after I have launched Python 3,2 and tried to import tensorflow I got an error no module named tensorflow. Any hep?I'm trying to install Tensorflow using source code rom github, after I gave up on installing it on my Python3.7 platform, fin order to do that I need to download and isntall Bazel, from this link: LINKLINK. THE PROBLEM, I could find the link to download and install Bazel using wget, or git clone, etc. 
ANY HELP PLEASE. 
ALSO, Do you think I should give up installing Tensorflow on 3.7 altogether, if so WHAT IS THE MOST STABLE PYTHON Platform to INSTALL TENSORFLOW? 
Its very frustrating! SalihOsman1 you seem to have successfully installed it. If it doesn't work, check whether you are using the right python binary. If you suspect that there is a bug in tensorflow, please open an issue providing the information requested in the issue template. Given your description, I believe it is likely something simple, like installing into the wrong python installation.

This is the wrong issue to seek help for your problem. SalihOsman1 Check your python version, you should install python package for 64 bit.





it worked for me. thanks

Yeah issue resolved ty buddy My python version was 32 bit It seems like most people recognize the problem has been fixed. i just loaded it onto a fresh install of Rapsbian buster today. it comes with python 3.3. but the pip is 18.1 and if you look on the site documentation for tensorflow they want PIP to be 19. SO i had to 
python3 m pip install upgrade pip 

and then check
pip3 version 

 to be sure it was at 19.2 
then I ran 

sudo pip3 install tensorflow 
 there were write permissions for one library and it worked fine

How do I install TensorFlow on windows for python 3. what COMMAND do I use it is not working using pip install tensorflowcheck your pip version it should be at least 19.0 otherwise tensorflow won't install. if it still doesn't install reply with exactly what error mess age you are getting
 

I've installed the latest version and older versions of Tensorflow using pip 19.3 and I still cannot run Tensorflow. I keep running into the following error:

 CODESCODES 

I've found no solution after hours of research. Has anyone successfully installed tensorflow with python 2 or 3 lately? Bredding234 TensorFlow 2.0 release candidate 0 has pips for 3.7 on windows, see 31431. Please try that version and let us know if it is not working.

 cskonopka what operating system are you using? Are you in a virtualenv? Please make sure the same python interpreter used for installing is also used for testing. For example, you could do:

 CODELCODEL 

And this should not fail.I have the same error.
 LINKLINK 
Funnily, installing TensorFlow works fine in an Anaconda virtualenv. hannesrollin CODESCODES version? Did you follow the steps in LINKLINK?same issue here,
python version 3.7
pip version 19.2
on windows 10

ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement tensorflow from versions: none 
ERROR: No matching distribution found for tensorflow








Please make sure Python interpreter you're using must be 64 bit version, It solved the problem for me try it.



















Please make sure Python interpreter you're using must be 64 bit version, It solved the problem for me try it.For 32bits versus 64 bits Python interpreters, check 32315 and 31431 

To debug why you cannot install tensorflow, CODESCODES should display the list of tags your environment supports. Then check out the LINKLINK here for 2. but you can check others too and see if your tag is in there. If it is, then it is an issue for us, otherwise this shouldn't be an issue opened in the repository. LINKLINK i have an answer since python 3.7 tensorflow is not working
try python 3.6 by following these steps on the link LINKLINK 

Works for me!my python is 3.0 is that mean i have to downgrade to use tensorflow?

I think it is more secure for now tu use python 3.7 rather than 3.8 as all ML DL packages do not release any new versions for python 3. I recommend to start to use py3.8 by the start of Jan2020. 
 Some package will not need update as 3.7 work under 3. but the other way doesn't work. Let see how the community will answer to py3.8 in the next couple of month.Python3.8 support is in 33374

This issue is about python3.7 on windows with 32bits interpreter. Please don't confuse the issues.I guess that TensorFLow does not support python yet 3.0 or this version don't have support. I pass by this same problem, and I solved creating an environment of python 3.2 in Anaconda, and this work OK to me. Anticipating, If you'll use the tensorflow gpu you can go through the same problem, because don't have support yet for CUDA 11, and from current cudnn version, so I needed to do a drowngrade too.TensorFlow currently not support python 3. but I have solved this issue on windows 10 by using Python environments like virtualenv, conda.

first, you need to download python 3.5x or 3.6x LINKLINK 
and install it to your machine. then you'll need to create a virtual environment with Python 3.6 or 3.
 virtualenv p path to python. exe 3.6 environment name.

finally, check your python version with activating the virtual environment.









Yes like me





this worked for me too. Thanks
please, I use ubuntu
 python 3.0
pip 19.1
I find this problem when i install tensorflow
 could not find a version that satisfies the requirement tensorflow from versions none  aynesss please read previous messages

In particular, your use case is covered by LINKLINK and 33374 ShriLingam23 this issue is about python3. So your solution about downgrading python 3.8 to 3.6 is out of scope. Please don't comment on closed issues as that only creates more confusion NIravMeghani please stop spamming unrelated issues.

TF 1.8 is out of life for a few years already. Please use TF 1.15, 2.0 or 2.

TF has no support for python 8 at the moment. You can compile from source if you want to. We are working on releasing python 8 support soon.

In the future, please open a new issue instead of riding on the back on unrelated issues.



WORKED FOR ME TOO. Thanks. ravi ai cons please don't update closed issues with worked for me, thanks messages as these messages send unnecessary emails to everyone who replied on the issue and these message have no real content.I fixed this issue on python 3.8 using this:


Then type: pip install LINKLINK  KaberMed this issue is about python3. not python3. Please don't spam









This helped me, Thank you! 
In VSC, Python 3.2 LINKLINK says that a windows version for python 3.7 support exists for 64bit python.
 CODESCODES which the page says is for windows using python 3.7 should work. if you get an error saying the wheel doesn't exist for this platform, that means you're using a 32bit python installed using the wheel file.Please relase an updated version of tensorflow libraries for Java.








I have successfully installed on Python3.7 but it shows this error.

 def TFE ContextOptionsSetAsync arg1, async:

Any solution to resolve this issue?

I have successfully installed tensorflow in Python3.7using pip install LINKLINK 
 but while using it, it shows this error.

def TFE ContextOptionsSetAsync arg1, async:

Any solution to resolve this issue?






Is it that tensorflow thumbs down.0 is a older version?







Yes it is tensorflow 1.0. I have replaced async with async1 as async is keyword in python 3.7
So this problem is resolved.

But now I am having below mentioned error:

ImportError: No module named ' pywrap tensorflow internal'On Mac OSX Catalina pip install LINKLINK worked without any issues.In my case, in the windows machine, I had same issue. I was using python 3. I made a new conda environment with python 3.6
 CODELCODEL 
same error here with python3.6 on nvidia jetson



this worked for meHi Pranay, Thank you so much for your reply. Now it's working fine for me too by using python 3.6

Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android 
 




In my case, in the windows machine, I had same issue. I was using python 3. I made a new conda environment with python 3.6
conda create name newenv python 3.6 
pip install tensorflow


this worked for me

 
You are receiving this because you commented.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub, or unsubscribe.
 













This works for Me!




in my case this wheel did not work correctly 
it throw below error 

Python 3.9 default, Aug 31 2020, 12:42:55 
: Anaconda, Inc. on linux
Type help, copyright, credits or license for more information.

Traceback most recent call last:
 File, line 1, in 
 File home ahmed anaconda3 envs tf14 lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow init. py, line 24, in 
 from tensorflow. python import pywrap tensorflow pylint: disable unused import
 File home ahmed anaconda3 envs tf14 lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow python init. py, line 49, in 
 from tensorflow. python import pywrap tensorflow
 File home ahmed anaconda3 envs tf14 lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow python pywrap tensorflow. py, line 58, in 
 from tensorflow. python. pywrap tensorflow internal import 
 File home ahmed anaconda3 envs tf14 lib python3.7 site packages tensorflow python pywrap tensorflow internal. py, line 114
 def TFE ContextOptionsSetAsync arg1, async:
 
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
Hi! Had a few dead ends but this worked out for me on python 3.9 3.8 Updating setuptools to the latest version, then installing tensorflow:

Step 1: CODESCODES 
Step 2: CODESCODES 
Step 3: CODESCODES 

source: LINKLINK 