 Please make sure that this is a build installation issue. As per our LINKLINK, we only address code doc bugs, performance issues, feature requests and build installation issues on GitHub. tag: build template 

 System information 
 OS Platform and Distribution for example, Linux Ubuntu 16.04: windows 10
 Mobile device for example iPhone 8, Pixel 2, Samsung Galaxy if the issue happens on mobile device:
 TensorFlow installed from source or binary: pip
 TensorFlow version: 2
 Python version: 3.8
 Installed using virtualenv? pip? conda? venv
 Bazel version if compiling from source: NA
 GCC Compiler version if compiling from source: NA
 CUDA cuDNN version: NA
 GPU model and memory: NA



 Describe the problem 
 cant install tensorflow
 Provide the exact sequence of commands steps that you executed before running into the problem 

install python 3.8
create a new venv
 CODESCODES 
fails with ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement tensorflow from versions: none 
ERROR: No matching distribution found for tensorflow 


 Any other info logs 
Include any logs or source code that would be helpful to diagnose the problem. If including tracebacks, please include the full traceback. Large logs and files should be attached.


EDIT: I guess you don't provide binaries for python 3.8 LINKLINK 
is there another issue I can subscribe for about support for python 3. couldn't find one, so keeping this open for now As you can refer from this LINKLINK Tensorflow is only supported till python 3.7 as of now.'awaiting response' from me?

In any case, I would prefer subscribe to an issue than wait for the web page update. amitport I am going to close this issue and we will keep you updated once Tensorflow supports Python 3.Are you satisfied with the resolution of your issue?
 Yes 
 No 
still, IMHO, python3.8 support should be an issue open for discussion contribution updates.

The page says 'python 3.4' and then if you scroll down to 'Package Locations' you can see that there isn't one for 3. and I guess that means we're supposed to know to use 3.7 or 3.6 for Windows? Last I checked, both 3.7 and 3.8 are ' 3.4' so the documentation should probably reflect the version restrictions clearly.Looks like there are also build issues with python 3.
Let's follow those up in LINKLINK 

And once all our dependencies release python 3.8 packages, we will quickly move to prepare ours.so how install 3. i am on 3.8 now x. x nonoyek as gunan said. They're waiting for their dependencies to release python3.8 packages and then release their python3.

you can either wait hopefully not long or install python3.7 if you asking how to do that, then this is not the correct place. try stackoverflow. com I have the same issue. Now I have both 3.7 and 3.8 installed, but it defaults to 3.

I've tried to uninstall 3.8 by removing the 3.8 folder in Applications and also in the Python. Framework directory, but it is still looking for that path and just doesn't find it.

How do I go back to 3. geoffreyhughes nonoyek amitport 

TensorFlow currently not support python 3. but I have solved this issue on windows 10 by using Python environments like virtualenv, conda.

first, you need to download python 3.5x or 3.6x LINKLINK 
and install it to your machine. then you'll need to create a virtual environment with Python 3.6 or 3.
 virtualenv p path to python. exe 3.6 environment name.

finally, check your python version with activating the virtual environment. 

I was able to successfully build TF on windows with python 3.
However, grpcio still did not publish their python 3.8 package.
Therefore, we are blocked on their release for our python 3.8 releaseFYI, these are the issues at grcpio: LINKLINK and LINKLINK I will reopen this issue until python 3.8 nightlies are out.Are you satisfied with the resolution of your issue?
 Yes 
 No 
closed by accident. sorryThis is not limited to windows. Rolling linux distributions without the option to downgrade software packages are also facing the problem, especially with pip. georgebush422 gowthamkpr should probably remove LINKLINK tagGrpcio has released binaries for 3. grpc grpc 20831. Do we have an estimate for when TF will be releasing?That's great news. We can start working on it. The roadmap is to first release CODESCODES with support for Python 3.8 that is, provide support on CODESCODES branch and only after that we will release a TF version for 3. That is, TF 2.1 will not support 3.8 as we are already in the process of releasing it but TF 2.2 most likely will.I am on Arch Linux rolling release, I cannot install the any versions of tensorflow.
lol Do I have to change the OS? not worth it. debendraoli Install tensorflow using the Arch package. debendraoli please read previous messages on the issue. Support for python3.8 is not yet released but will be done in the next year.

how to install tensorflow arch package on virtualenv? Install it systemwide. Or use 3.7 in a virtualenv.
















Arch guys, please create a different issue, don't pollute this onePython 3.0b1 Release Date: June 4, 2019
I guess Top5 most popular Github project could do better.
Please update this issue with the progress on scale from 0 to 100 with step size 10.As we are a large project, we have to wait untill all our dependencies are
python 3.8 compatible. This also prevents us from being able to try with
the beta release, the release you mention. Grpcio only released a
compatible package in mid December, and we only were able to make sure all
our build issues are resolved.
So, if you like you can build TF from sources for python 3.8 at the moment.

Nowadays, most of the team is on vacation. As we slowly come back from
holidays, we will set up nightly 3.8 builds sometime in January. Official
release with python 3.8 is planned in march, the 2.2 release. 2.1 was cut
before all python 3.8 issues were resolved.


wrote:














As others said, in the meantime, it would go a long way if you could fix the docs as currently, it could be hard for newcomers to figure out why CODESCODES yields since it is stated that the Python Requirement is python 3.4 or later.

 CODELCODEL 

 debendraoli you don't need to change OS, just use CODESCODES. 

As he mentioned, you don't need to change OS, you just need python 3. Try the following:
 CODELCODEL 

 CODESCODES is your destination directory. Make sure you have Python 3.7 installed. In my case, I installed it from the AUR.

Great suggestion. Thank you for the feedback.
 lamberta Can we update our docs to say currently python 3.8 is not supported yet?Sure. System requirements are in this doc: LINKLINK 

What should it say? Python 3.4 3. lamberta yes, and 3.8 soonish. This was were I also expected the docs to mention the requirements of Python supported. I'd advise the team to keep that updated, requirements being a fairly important thing thumbs up FYI, I built TF 1.15 with Python 3.8 myself at LINKLINK Are you satisfied with the resolution of your issue?
 Yes 
 No 
Why was this closed? It is not resolved AFAIK yes it can be built locally, but that's not the issue ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement tf nightly from versions: none 
ERROR: No matching distribution found for tf nightly
Doesn't work here either.it was autoclosed by a commit. we are still aware that 3.8 binaries are not available. NIravMeghani this issue is still open, I would have been surprised if it did work NIravMeghani Your wheel link points to a tensorflow 1.0 macOS wheel that is not compiled for python3. There is no way this wheel could actually work thumbs up Also this issue is about python3.8 support for tensorflow 2. x.

Look at LINKLINK for the latest possible wheels Python 3.8 wheels are not yet available.

For now the easiest way is to build the wheel by yourself, takes possibly a few hours max.
Follow the instructions at LINKLINK 
Additional potentially useful hints:
 CODELCODEL 
Also set CODESCODES for tensorflow 2.1 build regardless what the actual VC version is any version works as long as it matches CODESCODES. This is to ensure the build does not take a full day. Look at CODESCODES for the details.

Clone the tensorflow source from git, checkout the tag of your interest 2.1 is known to work, not sure about 1.15.

python configure. py
Optimization flags
 arch: AVX2
 CODELCODEL until 2.2 is released, CODESCODES will not work with python 3.8
Please see LINKLINK  mihaimaruseac, Please consider these changes in LINKLINK for doc correction till python 3.8 is not supported and review PR.Release date for a new version tensorflow that works on Python 3.So only downgrading to 3.7 or lower is the solution?For now there are 2 solutions: use Python 3.7 or compile from source. 

TF 2.2 will have python3.8 support.What about CODESCODES?We have some issues on Linux CPU where CODESCODES has been broken these past few days. Once they are resolved we can restart the process of building 3.8 nightlies and it should be at most 2 3 days after that.

So, hopefully by mid February we can release 3.8 nightlies. mihaimaruseac Any ETA on TF 2. Weeks? Months?

Edit: I should read more carefully, thanks!

 martinwicke ewilderj do we have our release roadmap published externally?Looks like a 3.8 wheel is now available for Linux:

 LINKLINK 
 ErikBjare gunan I guess this is something like a roadmap? LINKLINK  harahu Yes, those are the issues that should be solved before TF2.2 gets released.

 beojan and others: Yes, nightly now has py3.8 support and TF 2.2 will also have this. However, note that this will be for Windows and Linux for now. MacOS support is supposed to arrive in the upcoming weeks, hopefully before the TF 2.2 final release it's an upstream issue, not something we can fix at the moment.Curious. Tried today pip install tf nightly on Windows with Python 3.82 x64 and get this message:
ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement tf nightly gpu from versions: none 
ERROR: No matching distribution found for tf nightly gpu



Not yet published for Windows:
 LINKLINK Is anyone working on this issue? I see no progress with the Windows Version. Any possibilities to put priority on it? Like using Patreon or other Donation sites? Else would start fixing it myself in case it stays open for the next few months thumbs up  NickDinges It's likely part of the 2.0 release.

Current option is to compile it manually: Windows, Python 3.8 and CUDA 10.1 is known to work with the latest r2.2 branch and v2.0 rc0 tag. Unfortunately without TensorRT and XLA support.2.0 release should have python 3.8Correct.
Tf nightlies and 2.0 rc0 both have python 3.8 support. Except for macos,
which is due to some issues we are having updating our mac cloud.


wrote:











Yes, just curious while there is still no image.

 LINKLINK  NickDinges this seems like a bug on our sideHi all, I am on a mac catalina with python 3. What should I do? Should I compile from source, wait for the new release or downgrade to python3.  NickDinges py38 pips for 2.0 rc0 will get uploaded shortly. Also, we have a fix in progress for the nightly pips for windows py38.

 lucaturchet If in rush, downgrading to py3.7 will allow you to CODESCODES. Otherwise, you can try compiling from source or waiting until 2.2 final release mihaimaruseac thanks a lot. Could you please provide an estimate of when you foresee to release the support for 3. Just to have an ideaA few weeks. We already have rc0 for 2.2 NickDinges Python 3.8 pips uploaded to LINKLINK and LINKLINK for Windows and Linux. From tomorrow all these will also be uploaded to CODESCODES Awesome! Thanks: Just checked, all files are updated except those needed for windows ;  LINKLINK, LINKLINK, and LINKLINK all have linux and windows python 3.8 packages.

Probably you checked before they got uploadedYes. Works now. The windows image was 5 hours later than the other images: Didnt expect that thumbs up Does it really work? Please help how to install. 
My attempt: pip install tensorflow has brown the same as one month ago:

 Could not find the version that satisfies the requirement tensorflow. Yes. you have to use pip install tf nightly gpu Yes. Thanks. 
I tried to execute the simple CV code:

 CODELCODEL 

Anyway I still have a problem with Tensorflow:

 CODELCODEL 

May be approach in my code is obsolete.Check this: LINKLINK tf nightly gpu 2.0. dev20200315 is still expecting cuda 10.1 not 10.2 keke8273 I don't think cuda 10.2 will be supported in TF 2.

If you already have installed the latest nvidia drivers and cuda, consider adding 10.1 cuda as a manual download and adjusting the paths. Latest nvidia drivers work with older cuda versions.

See LINKLINK for some hints.

 gunan Is there an issue number for this that can be followed? Please don't derail the thread with other issues. CUDA 10.2 is not the focus of TF 2.2 though you should be able to compile from source.

 alanjcastonguay it is an internal issue unfortunately, so no public issue number. We will update this thread when all versions will have py38 releases

Do i have to update pip or something? I'm still getting the same error. At this point it might be me trying to use python for the first time. Yes you have to update pip.
















I'm currently setting up a new clean Windows 10 OS and am getting this error with the latest default build of Python CODESCODES. The OS is update to date for all Windows updates.

Both options still have an error:
 CODELCODEL 
Both still error:
 CODELCODEL 

Does anyone know of helpful build instructions to work around this issue or is there anything I can provide from my system that might help?According to LINKLINK we only have nightly pips at the moment with python3.8

Can you try any of those packages? Also, make sure you have CODESCODES upgraded CODESCODES and that your CPU supports AVX ConradSollitt, works for me. Both for CODESCODES and CODESCODES pip.
 CODELCODEL 

 tf nightly gpu 

 CODELCODEL 

 tensorflow 
 CODELCODEL 

 tensorflow gpu 
 CODELCODEL 

EDIT: I was a bit quick with the conclusion, CODESCODES installation fails after a few minutes with
 CODELCODEL Oh, there shouldn't be any CODESCODES. Thanks for catching that. We will have to fix by the final release mihaimaruseac and ahtik Thanks for taking time to help, it works now! thumbs up 

Normally I would use CODESCODES to check version but now realize I need to probably use CODESCODES in most cases. I used the default download link for Windows from the main Python site and ended up installing 32 bit.

Once I installed 64 bit build of Python it worked to install. Then after downloading the latest LINKLINK I was able to run a previous image classification server that I had created.

Seems like there is opportunity to improve the following error messages in pip and I see that there is at least one issue open at LINKLINK 
 CODELCODEL 

Regardless that is not a TensorFlow issue though Hi,

I have downloaded the anaconda and created a virtual env with python 3.2. am not able to install tensorflow 2.0 in 3.2 env.
is it still the issue in 3.2 python for Tensorflow? or it fixed?
how i can install Tf 2.0 in python 3.2TensorFlow 2.1 is NOT released on Python 3.8
TensorFlow 2.2 WILL BE released on Python 3.8 amrithadevadiga 
Iterating on what was already said, it's still not available, it will be!
As an advice, always try to catch read the thread before posting. TF 2.0 rc2 has been released and Python 3.8 wheels are available to install. LINKLINK Are you satisfied with the resolution of your issue?
 Yes 
 No 
 mihaimaruseac 
Any hopes for a Mac release?

Is this production ready? I can't say so! Then why closing the issue? Are you guys done? Do you have the specific date of final? Stop wasting our time please, py38 is over a year here. For anyone else: please shut up and stop derailing the issue until it's over.Sorry, closed by mistake. Reopening.

We publish the RCs for two reasons: so people can test early and identify major regression since we only do patch releases for security reasons and so that people who want to be on the bleeding edge and don't want to compile from source can still get access to pips compiled on new infrastructure. RC versions can be specified during CODESCODES.

Furthermore, once RC versions are released, you can be sure that a final version is at most a few weeks ahead, depending on how many regressions are identified in an RC. We are in RC2 and it's likely that the release happening this week will be a final release.

 j pb: unfortunately the upstream team has been unresponsive in providing support for building on MacOS. We will probably have to go ahead without a 3.8 release on MacOS now and upload the pips for python 3.8 at a later time when the upstream issues get solved mihaimaruseac Aight! Thanks for the heads up thumbs up pip install tensorflow 2.0rc2
ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement tensorflow 2.0rc2 from versions: none 
ERROR: No matching distribution found for tensorflow 2.0rc2 acegilz It's useful to comment with the OS and exact steps taken to get to this error.
 CODESCODES does work fine for both Ubuntu and Windows 10, using 64 bit Python 3. Output from CODESCODES can help you pinpoint the issue. acegilz Are you sure you are on python 3.8 and not 3.2?
 CODESCODES works on 3.8 but won't on 3.2 I had to add a virtual env with a plain 3.0 installation for it to work.That is very surprising. The packages for 3.8 should work for all patch
releases.
 constantinexisc It should work with both 3.8 and 3.2. It's not clear which OS acegilz is using, but at this point there are no python 3.8 wheels available for MacOS.

Linux and Windows should work fine, LINKLINK Well that's weird. I'm on windows 10 insiders so I won't bother figuring why exactly my 3.2 installation didn't work with 2.0rc2, working fine on 3.8 now. constantinexisc Most likely the culprit is 64 vs 32 bit python version. Could you check both python binaries by running corresponding CODESCODES and comparing the results? TF 2.0rc2 Windows wheels are only available for 64 bit Python.I'll be damned you are right! The 3.2 is the 32bit version. How did I install a 32bit python. my eyesight needs some work. Thanks for clearing it up 😅RC3 is out and has LINKLINK Can someone with an older macos installed verify our mac images?
We had to build on macos catalina, therefore, we want to make sure they are ok on older versions before we release final.Ubuntu 20.04 will ship with Python 3. x possibly 3.2, so this means you can't install tensorflow on it yet. fcole90 that's not completely true. First, you can always use a virtualenv with another python. But also later this week or early next week we'l release tf 2.2 final that would work with Python 3.8Yes, of course I meant with the shipped python. I installed myself a 3.7 in a virtualenv as well. BTW, great to hear that you're going to release that version soon 😃Confirmed that I could import tensorflow with MacOS 10.14.6 and Python 3.2

 CODELCODEL 
 jontignis thanks for verifying.  LINKLINK, the pip package still declares support for 2.7 contrary to what docs say, but not 3.
 CODELCODEL 

Is there any hope that final release will support 3.
 mjmikulski 2. x drop and 3.8 intro was pushed in the beginning of Mar LINKLINK and should be part of 2.2 release. These classifiers are just for metainfo, you can already today use rc4 Python 3.8 wheels on all the supported platforms LINKLINK either with CPU or with CUDA 10. CUDA 10.2 requires manual build, is known to work at least with Linux and Windows.

 mihaimaruseac any ideas why LINKLINK is not merged into the r2.2 branch? ahtik: there was no PR to cherry pick. On it 39188 should fixYEAH! This was fixed in LINKLINK which was released 11 hours ago.And now we can finally close this. Apologies for the long time until the final release.Are you satisfied with the resolution of your issue?
 Yes 
 No 
God bless. Please make following releases quicker.We prefer to not release it if we find there are issues. Sometimes that makes for a longer wait.I still can't install CODESCODES on windows 10 64bit 2004 python 3.2 by running 


It returns this error: 
 ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement tensorflow from versions: none 
ERROR: No matching distribution found for tensorflow 

 

I also tried using this command: 


Which also didn't work and returned this error: 
 CODESCODES 

 

 What'd I do now? Prottoy2938 Does CODESCODES confirm you're using python v3.2 AMD64 64 bit? It does sound like a 32 vs 64 bit python binary issue. CODESCODES Linked to Python 3.8 or to legacy Python? 
 CODESCODES Linked to Python 3.

 CODESCODES 

 CODESCODES  if Python 3.8 then
 CODESCODES  cclauss Often CODESCODES is not useful as it does not show the 32 vs 64 bit build info, which causes problems all the time because of the way python. org Download site at LINKLINK defaults to the 32 bit Windows installer without even warning about being a 32 bit. CODESCODES shows both the version and 32 vs 64 bit info. ahtik, CODESCODES returns 

 CODESCODES 

And my device's processors: 
 CODESCODES  Prottoy2938 There you go thumbs up Replace your a 32 bit python with a 64 bit version and it's good to go. Tensorflow does not support 32 bit architecture. CODESCODES would be fine.I couldn't install it. when I run CODESCODES I get this error CODESCODES  AsmaTidafi CODESCODES? Please read messaged above, in case solution is present mihaimaruseac
 CODELCODEL Operating system? CPU version and architecture? CODESCODES? CODESCODES? I would recommend opening a new issue and filling in issue template, after making sure that the solution presented here does not apply:
 check that your CPU supports 64 bit binaries and AVX check that your Python is on 64 bits check that CODESCODES is updated to the latest version AsmaTidafi Also try CODESCODES or in your case likely CODESCODES. I used that after help from mihaimaruseac and other's here and realized I was running a 32 bit Version of Python on 64 Bit Windows when I had last setup a new computer. The default Python download link for Windows users is 32 bit so it's easy to make the mistake during setup; luckily if that's the case it's easy to uninstall and then re install the 64 bit version.1. All the above methods dont work. When i type tensorflow version, shows no module 'tensorflow'.
NameError Traceback most recent call last 
 in 
 1 tensorflow v

NameError: name 'tensorflow' is not defined
although on pip install tensorflow shows requirement satisfied CODESCODES 
 CODESCODES Vee Vee, not W
 CODESCODES Hi Thank you for your reply but actually when i run it shows python 3 is
not defined.
please look as to how can I download tensorflow i tried everything


wrote:














Are you on Linux, macOS, or Windows?

If Windows, use CODESCODES instead of CODESCODES in the examples above.

If on Linux or macOS, try CODESCODES Nope same error
python3 c import tensorflow ; print tensorflow. version 
error:

 File, line 1 py c import
tensorflow SyntaxError: invalid syntax



wrote:















You must have forgotten the quotes on the statement above.
What was the result of CODESCODES? Aanyajain
Try CODESCODES 

Did you try and first install tensorflow? Full syntax from CLI: CODESCODES 

 cclauss I think there might be an issue with CODESCODES vs CODESCODES characters is related to markdown formatting. I just used the code formatting to update the command so it can be correctly copied and pasted.
Yes sir i tried it it shows error:

 File, line 1 python3 m pip
install tensorflow SyntaxError: invalid syntax





wrote:




















 Aanyajain 
Sounds like you might have an issue with your Python setup; looks like the CODESCODES or CODESCODES command runs a version of CODESCODES on your local machine. Can you try the following and report back?

1 Create File: tf ver. py 
 
import tensorflow as tf
print tf. version 
 

2 Then run:
 CODESCODES python3 tf ver. py'Hello sir I have a new problem I cant run any cmd in jupyter notebook as it
is not getting connected like the symbol on top just breaks when I run any
Command. Can you please help. Its not working I dont know what to do I
searched everywhere on net nothing yet. If it gets connected then Ill
probably try to run what you just sent.
Please help Im direly in need of it.


wrote:























 Aanyajain please open a new issue. In this case, it seems your system is in a bad state, not an issue of TensorFlow. We recommend StackOverflow for questions related to the operating system setup.

Edit: Locking this conversation as the original issue has been resolved and there are many people subscribed to this. We don't want all of them to be notified for every additional issue. Please open new issues, filling in issue template as that would make debugging much easier.