We have a number of Javascript tests: LINKLINK. LINKLINK. LINKLINK. We would like to convert these to use LINKLINK, in LINKLINK. To run selenium tests, you will need the Selenium Python package and a 'driver' a backend for it to talk to your browser. so these could be converted to use a regular JS test framework like LINKLINK, and be run in Node without needing to control a browser. That should make them faster, and if there are failures they will probably be easier to debug. Alternatively, you could write new Selenium tests for parts of the UI other than the notebook editor for example the 'running' tab in the dashboard, or authentication visit CODESCODES, check that we can't get back to CODESCODES, try an invalid token, then the correct one. I had a go at creating a mocha test loading CODESCODES. Running this in node wasn't entirely successful. It looks like too much of the code assumes it's in a browser to easily test in node. Mocha can LINKLINK, which might be an option. mpacer I'm trying to convert CODESCODES. I'll try to make it self included until the utilities module is ready and I can use it to update the tests. I'm sorry if I seem to overcommunicate stuff, I'm just to trying to keep you guys updated and kind of get feedback if I'm working in the right direction and following the right process. Let me know if need to do something else or even completely wait until a further notice from you. Also, I have a question. In order to use selenium to test notebook, we're gonna create python wrappers using webdriver API to access notebook APIs like CODESCODES, CODESCODES etc. Or is already a Python API for that? The aim with Selenium is to test the user interface, so where practical the tests and utilities are being written in terms of user interactions click this thing, press these keys rather than Javascript APIs. I've just done another review pass on mpacer's test utilities PR 3458 I think it's nearly ready to merge. So, should I wait for this PR to merge in order to use it in mine? I think that's easiest sorry for the holdup. Not at all. Thanks for being responsive and sorry if I ask too many questionsDon't worry about asking questions that how we find stuff out: I've just merged 3458 that should make it easier for people to get started with testing the notebook editing interface using Selenium. And I've opened 3475 as an example of converting one JS test to one Selenium test. Do you have any idea when this pull request will be merged since I checked the code and I believe I will need the changes you made in order to finialise my PR? For now I just copies the changes I need to make tests passIn theory I wait for someone else to review it. In practice, everyone else may well be too busy, and I'll merge it myself in a few days. It's fine to copy the bits and pieces you need for now. I would like to try my hand at converting interrupt. js if nobody else is already working on it. Go for it: I just created LINKLINK. I ran into an issue accessing the interrupt message once cell execution was interrupted, so I had to create a slight work around for this test. Please check it out and let me know what you think. takluyver I just created PR LINKLINK for converting a small JS test to selenium. Please check it out and let me know. I chose this small JS test to familiarize myself with the code. I have some idea now, will work on other tests as well. takluyver did some work on this. Filed PR LINKLINK. Also, just to get some more context, can you help me understand why are we trying to move to selenium from JS? Hi, wondering which files have not been converted yet as I would like to contribute to this task. Is it just any js files still left in the current directories that aren't in the selenium directory? Or is there a list of the files or commits which people have converted already? Thanks emstaple Yes, its the js files which are left under tests notebook. Generally I have seen that people atleast me have converted and removed from tests notebook in same commit but I might be wrong Yep, I've been trying to ensure that people remove the js files in the PR where they've done the conversion. If there are any js files remaining for tests that already have a Selenium version, feel free to make a PR that just deletes the JS version. hey takluyver I am trying a conversion of the save. js file to python but I am getting this error. CODESCODES. how can I set the notebook name, and I am a newbie here if you could provide me already converted files that would be great for me. Here are the files that have been converted so far LINKLINK. Also if you'd like an example PR this LINKLINK is great Thanks Sheshtawy! thanks Sheshtawy If anyone is interested in this ticket, I could use some help with a related PR LINKLINK. I'm stuck with a selenium issueHello 👋, I would like to keep converting tests, I just have some questions about this issue: If I run all Selenium tests, the CODESCODES is failing, could someone please double check to confirm that? if that's the case, I can try to solve it and send the fix on my next PR. Just for curiosity, wouldn't be better if we have the driver set as headless? in order to run the tests faster and without opening a Firefox window each time we run some of them. And in that way, we could use the current way to debug only. Would you prefer to get PR for a single test? or wouldn't be a problem if someone sends one PR of 2 or more converted tests? Thanks for letting me contribute: It seems to be passing on Travis, but if it's failing for you, feel free to investigate. You can set an environment variable CODESCODES to make Firefox headless for the tests. I like this because having to explicitly hide the window makes it obvious what you have to do to see it again for debugging, and being able to see it is really valuable when you're writing changing tests. I'd suggest doing one test file per PR to keep it manageable for review, but it's not a strict rule. Alright, I'll take a look on the issued test and take another one to convert. Thank you for the answer and clarification on the use of headless mode. Hi, i am interested in contributing. What can i work on? I am also interested in contributing, what tasks are recommended to work on? Hi all so long as there are JS test files left there are see the links in the initial issue description, there are things to do. Briefly: Pick a JS test. Write an equivalent test in Selenium. Check that the Selenium test runs and passes. Remove the JS test. Make a pull request. There are several which have been done and merged already which can serve as examples see the this was referenced links in this issue. I marked this as 'good first issue' because it doesn't require deep understanding of Jupyter, and it's fairly unlikely to clash with other work people might be doing. But it's not easy: you'll need to set up Selenium, understand the intent behind some Javascript code, and figure out how to check the same thing from Selenium. Maybe 'good second issue' would be more accurate, but we don't have a tag like that. Hello. I'm interested in convert some JS to selenium. Can I start working on the move multiselection. js test? Hello. i would like to contribute by converting Javascript tests to Selenium. I am going to start with safe append output. jsHi, I've converted display id. js 5394 and notifications. js 5455. Hi, is there a particular reason why none of the JS tests inside the tests base folder have been converted? If not, I'd like to start working on converting security. js to selenium. I believe I could do convert a few tests, Let me know if that's good with Y'allI would also be willing to help out. I will convert a few also. Is there a way to check which still need to be converted? Hi, I'd love to help out, I have a lot of experience with Python and Selenium, and some experience in JS. Is this issue still open? What can I do? Although we're not entertaining new features at this time, I think contained test improvements would qualify as the kinds of changes we can still consider. maxhw98, brian ketelboeter, ikyman, and 06fahad thank you for your interest and I really apologize for the delay in getting back to you. As there have been a number of you recently interested in helping thank you! I would suggest some coordination. Please ping back via a comment when you'd like to take things up. If there are multiple, perhaps some coordination can take place dividing by subsystem service perhaps? as this may be a large task. Since this issue is front end oriented, I won't be of much help, but I'm sure we can find folks to answer any questions you might have. Thank you!