 CODELCODEL. I have re install the anaconda as well. but still It is showing the same kernel error. Kernel json file shows: argv: m, ipykernel launcher, f, connection file. display name: Python 3, language: python. I have tried lot of solution which are already there but nothing works out. Kindly help. Kindly respond. You might want to be sure the latest version CODESCODES of CODESCODES is fully installed. Looks like this portion of its setup. py didn't run CODESCODES. It's 5.3 version only but there is no file setup. py under jupyter client. Kindle elaborate jupyter core: 4. jupyter notebook: 6. qtconsole: 4. ipython: 7. ipykernel: 5. jupyter client: 5. jupyter lab: 1. nbconvert: 5. ipywidgets: 7. nbformat: 4. traitlets: 4.2I'm referring to the setup. py that's in the repository: LINKLINK. This file isn't laid down during installation but it's what is used during CODESCODES 's installation. You might try CODESCODES. You should have CODESCODES installed. I have installed anaconda, under that jupyter notebook also get installed. I have 5.3 version and pywin32 is installed. Still there is kernel error. Is the kernel failure still due to a DLL load failure or something different now? CODESCODES It's a same error of DLL load failed. CODELCODEL Thanks for the update. You'll need to figure out why CODESCODES is not working. There are a number of SO hits on this issue, some of which state that CODESCODES resolved the issue. I don't have access to a windows machine, so can't really help much more than this sorry. Thanks for giving me the directions! Now it shows me the error of dead kernel. Kindly help on this. CODELCODEL. This is still the same issue, failed import of CODESCODES. Did you try CODESCODES into the correct environment? Looks like you're hitting this issue: LINKLINK so at least you're not alone: smile thumbs up I have installed pywin32, what does correct environment mean here? How should I resolve it? I tried a lot reading lot of stuffs on github and solving it, but nothing works out. Please helpIf you're dealing with virtual envs or conda environments, where you installed pywin32 matters. I would create a one line python script that imports win32api and get that python script to not throw CODESCODES. CODELCODEL. save into CODESCODES. If you invoke CODESCODES in the same env as you run Notebook, you should get something like CODESCODES. You'll know things are better when that same invocation yields nothing indicating the import statement worked. Also focus on where your CODESCODES command is coming from and relative to your CODESCODES command. The multiple envs can be confusing. I had also referenced CODESCODES before since that's what SO posts used, but try CODESCODES as well. I got this error when I run this: Traceback most recent call last: File import win32api. py, line 1, in. import win32api. ImportError: DLL load failed: The specified procedure could not be found. That's good actually. So now try to get CODESCODES installed in such a way that the import statement succeeds. but how? what's the other way Try CODESCODES if you are using conda. I did that, still showing the same error.2 days back everything was working fine. Suddenly dead kernel issue pops upModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'win32api'. This is the error which I am getting now minrk updated the dependencies in conda forge earlier today. These instructions might help get you going: LINKLINK Same problem. I've got this error. Traceback most recent call last: result await result. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. type mtype. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. kernel id yield self. start kernel for session session id, path, name, type, kernel name. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. self. kernel manager. start kernel path kernel path, kernel name kernel name. yielded next result. super MappingKernelManager, self. start kernel kwargs. km. start kernel kwargs. kernel name self. kernel name. with secure write fname as f: return next self. gen. win32 restrict file to user fname. import win32api. ImportError: DLL load failed: 1 is not a valid Win32 application. please help me. thanks. I try installing CODESCODES but when i run CODESCODES i got this error. Traceback most recent call last: File, line 1, in. ImportError: DLL load failed: 1 is not a valid Win32 application. Please try relative to CODESCODES. Since this is a conda env you might be better off with CODESCODES. It wont worked. I will try to re install anaconda3 then create env for tensorflow gpu then retry the process on launching jupyter notebook, I will update you if i got same error. Thank you for your response sir. I've been following this step on installing tensorflow gpu for object detection but i stack while running this command CODESCODES. This is the github repository that i followed on installing tensorflow gpu. url Hello, I got through the same error today this is really annoying, especially because it also breaks vscode interactive window and all my kernels. After checking, pywin32 had a release 15 days ago for the first time in one year. Downgrading in my environment make jupyter work again but it is obviously not a fix: CODELCODEL. Note that creating a new environment from scratch does not fix your problem: CODELCODEL reinstall CODELCODEL which is buggued and seems not to work on windows in its current state. Thanks Galileo, The downgrade fixes the issue. Currently testing Tensorflow2 on conda and the first obstacle comes from this notebook complaint. Runnig the postinstall from an elevated command prompt worked for me: CODESCODES. This solved my problem. Same issue, fixed downgrading to pywin32 224. Thanks a lot! Thank you, I fixed the problem when i reinstalled it. I think the problem. is i dont set the right path. I had the same issue and was resolved by running the anaconda navigator as administrator and launched jupyter Thanks big time Galileo Galilei, downgrading pywin32 to 224 fixed the issue for me too. For my virtualenv, that is: CODESCODES. And ye, pywin32 225 was released 15 Sep, pretty much the time I updated a load of modules + when Jupyter broke, so it all makes sense now. Thanks, Galileo Galilei, downgrading pywin32 from 225 to 224 resolved every kernel issue I'm having ir, python2, and python3. Like rbscholtus said the new version of pywin32 broke Jupyter completly. Thanks a lot Galileo Galilei! This solved the issue for me too. As for the others, please note that if you have several conda virtual environments and you use them as a kernel in jupyter notebook. The process he mentioned needs to be repeated for each of them after activating them! So happy I got this working after 2 useless days. this solved it for me. This worked for me. Thanks a bunch. Thanks, confirming that downgrading solved the same issue for me as well. Traceback most recent call last: result await result. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. type mtype. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. kernel id yield self. start kernel for session session id, path, name, type, kernel name. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. self. kernel manager. start kernel path kernel path, kernel name kernel name. yielded next result. super MappingKernelManager, self. start kernel kwargs. km. start kernel kwargs. kernel name self. kernel name. with secure write fname as f: return next self. gen. with os. fdopen os. open fname, open flag, 0o600, mode as f: What can be the issue? Please helpThis is shown under kernel error. None of the notebooks are being ExecutedPlease update jupyter client and jupyter core to their latest versions 5.4 and 4.1 respectively. If that doesn't solve your issue, the error message produced has better diagnostics to help drive the exercise. Thanks. Had same issue and upgrading jupyter client worked. CODESCODES Closing issue based on recent successes. Using the latest versions of jupyter client 5.4 and jupyter core 4.1 should be attempted prior to opening a new issue. Thank you. I encountered this problem too but I wasn't using Anaconda. Turns out there's another step it's in the pywin32 README: Hope this helps someone! pip3 install upgrade pywin32 224 force reinstall. ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement pywin32 224 from versions: 225. ERROR: No matching distribution found for pywin32 224. Thanks! It helped me with this problem having all updated versions of python and jupyter. Thx, it worked for meMy system is Windows 64 bit. This solved for me. conda install c conda forge pywin32. conda install c anaconda jupyter client. conda install c conda forge jupyter coreThat didnt solve for me thumbs down. I've already uninstalled and reinstalled using different options, nothing worked. When I start Spyder the same error happens. I already uninstalled, cleaned the registry, deleted anything I could find related to Anaconda, and reinstalled it, and the same error happens. It's very frustrating. OMG bro you save me! Thanks! pip install upgrade pywin32 224. thank you very much, it work CODESCODES works for me. but there is one error when running it: ERROR: Could not install packages due to an EnvironmentError: Acess Denied: Consider using the CODESCODES option or check the permissions. Anyway, it works. Traceback most recent call last: result await result. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. type mtype. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. kernel id yield self. start kernel for session session id, path, name, type, kernel name. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. self. kernel manager. start kernel path kernel path, kernel name kernel name. yielded next result. super MappingKernelManager, self. start kernel kwargs. km. start kernel kwargs. kernel name self. kernel name. with secure write fname as f: return next self. gen. with os. fdopen os. open fname, open flag, 0o600, mode as f: I'm new to anaconda and this is what my kernel error says. could someone help me fix it. i've tried all the solutions, uninstalled and installed, but none worked. I'm sorry, I don't konw thumbs down. &nbsp;原始邮件&nbsp;.发件人: &gt;;.发送时间: 2019年12月24日 星期二 上午8:19.收件人: hub. com&gt;;.抄送: &gt;; hub. com&gt;;.主题: Re: Kernel error in jupyter notebook 4909. Traceback most recent call last: result await result. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. type mtype. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. kernel id yield self. start kernel for session session id, path, name, type, kernel name. yielded self. gen. throw exc info type: ignore. self. kernel manager. start kernel path kernel path, kernel name kernel name. yielded next result. super MappingKernelManager, self. start kernel kwargs. km. start kernel kwargs. kernel name self. kernel name. with secure write fname as f: return next self. gen. with os. fdopen os. open fname, open flag, 0o600, mode as f: I'm new to anaconda and this is what my kernel error says. could someone help me fix it. i've tried all the solutions, uninstalled and installed, but none worked. You are receiving this because you commented. Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub, or unsubscribe. Thank you, solved to me too. my actual pywin32 ver is 227, downgrading solved the problem. Regards. Thats happend to me when i instaled Anaconda for the first Time, i just clicked on next, next, next and close, at the end of the process, boom, nothing works. Your Anaconda installed on directory do not permit the scripts running correctly, try to create new folder on local disc c thumbs up called Anaconda3 or what you prefer and then install Anaconda inside that folder. Remember to correctly unninstal older Anaconda before everything! Regards. I was facing the same issue with CODESCODES, CODESCODES, and CODESCODES. Running CODESCODES then fixed the issue for me. The Jupyter Notebook is running at: LINKLINK. or LINKLINK. Use Control C to stop this server and shut down all kernels twice to skip confirmation. To access the notebook, open this file in a browser: Or copy and paste one of these URLs: LINKLINK. or LINKLINK. 302 GET? token ba3023afa0109fa2b443f9a40f8382f9f68feb5c3998531e 127.1 0.00ms. Kernel started: be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restarting kernel 1 5, new random ports. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restarting kernel 2 5, new random ports. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restarting kernel 3 5, new random ports. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restarting kernel 4 5, new random ports. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restart failed. Kernel be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd died, removing from map. Timeout waiting for kernel info reply from be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd. Error opening stream: HTTP 404: Not Found Kernel does not exist: be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd. 404 GET api kernels be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd channels? session id 2154bf90daec4baa9350a1f2374e8027 127. Kernel does not exist: be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd. 404 GET api kernels be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd channels? session id 2154bf90daec4baa9350a1f2374e8027 127.1 28.01ms referer None. Replacing stale connection: be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd:2154bf90daec4baa9350a1f2374e8027. this is the error i got when i open a file in jupyter notebook and kernel is not starting. help me, please. The Jupyter Notebook is running at: LINKLINK. or LINKLINK. Use Control C to stop this server and shut down all kernels twice to skip confirmation. To access the notebook, open this file in a browser: Or copy and paste one of these URLs: LINKLINK. or LINKLINK. 302 GET? token ba3023afa0109fa2b443f9a40f8382f9f68feb5c3998531e 127.1 0.00ms. Kernel started: be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. m. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. self. execre re. compile r'. s ' winext, re. IGNORECASE. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restarting kernel 1 5, new random ports. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. m. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. self. execre re. compile r'. s ' winext, re. IGNORECASE. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restarting kernel 2 5, new random ports. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. m. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. self. execre re. compile r'. s ' winext, re. IGNORECASE. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restarting kernel 3 5, new random ports. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. m. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. self. execre re. compile r'. s ' winext, re. IGNORECASE. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restarting kernel 4 5, new random ports. Traceback most recent call last: main, mod spec. exec code, run globals. app. initialize argv. File, line 2, in initialize. return method app, args, kwargs. user ns self. user ns, inst cls args, kwargs. kernel self, inst cls args, kwargs. m. PylabMagics, ScriptMagics, m m shell self. shell. self. execre re. compile r'. s ' winext, re. IGNORECASE. return compile pattern, flags. p sre compile. compile pattern, flags. p sre parse. parse p, flags. p parse sub source, pattern, flags & SRE FLAG VERBOSE, 0. not nested and not items. p parse sub source, state, sub verbose, nested + 1. not nested and not items. code escape source, this, state. raise source. error incomplete escape s escape, len escape. KernelRestarter: restart failed. Kernel be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd died, removing from map. Timeout waiting for kernel info reply from be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd. Error opening stream: HTTP 404: Not Found Kernel does not exist: be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd. 404 GET api kernels be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd channels? session id 2154bf90daec4baa9350a1f2374e8027 127. Kernel does not exist: be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd. 404 GET api kernels be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd channels? session id 2154bf90daec4baa9350a1f2374e8027 127.1 28.01ms referer None. Replacing stale connection: be9cf94a d4a0 4de5 b352 c33d499ce5bd:2154bf90daec4baa9350a1f2374e8027. this is the error i got when i open a file in jupyter notebook and kernel is not starting. You are receiving this because you commented. Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub, or unsubscribe. I have reinstalled it 5 times no use of reinstalling. my friend said that it is a networking issue my pc is connecting to localhost how can I solve it. nani samireddy your traceback output strikes me as more to do with ipykernel and ipython than jupyter client and jupyter core issues which was the original problem reported on this issue. I would make sure you're running the latest versions of ipykernel and ipython. Also, does your notebook start but you only see this issue upon execution of a cell? There's some aspect to this that I wonder if the issue is related to what's in the cell. I'm assuming that's not the case, but I need to ask if you're able to run some simple cells prior to the issue? kevin bates I am running latest versions of ipykernel and ipython. and my notebook is starting but I am not able to execute a single line of code. LINKLINK. Googling led me to LINKLINK which implies it's probably not in Notebook itself. More googling led me to LINKLINK which I believe is your scenario. Please check the contents of your CODESCODES environment variable and ensure it only contains extension names suffixes. LINKLINK might help how to go about that. Like the IPython issue, I suspect your CODESCODES has path names in it and that's where the invalid escape sequence of ' CODESCODES is coming from. Collecting pycocotools. Using cached pycocotools 2. tar. gz 1.5 MB. Building wheels for collected packages: pycocotools. Building wheel for pycocotools setup. py: started. Building wheel for pycocotools setup. py: finished with status 'error'. Running setup. py clean for pycocotools. Failed to build pycocotools. Installing collected packages: pycocotools. Running setup. py install for pycocotools: started. Running setup. py install for pycocotools: finished with status 'error'. ERROR: Command errored out with exit status 1: Complete output 13 lines: running bdist wheel. running build. running build py. creating build. running build ext. building 'pycocotools. mask' extension. error: Microsoft Visual C++ 14.0 is required. Get it with Build Tools for Visual Studio: LINKLINK need help to solve above error. Terminals not available error was DLL load failed: 1 is not a valid Win32 application. The Jupyter Notebook is running at: LINKLINK. Use Control C to stop this server and shut down all kernels twice to skip confirmation. To access the notebook, open this file in a browser: Or copy and paste one of these URLs: LINKLINK. I get this too. Thank you so much! this worked me! Not able to get frozen inference graph module in notebook what will the error so that can get that module for object detection using tensorflow? Traceback most recent call last: from tensorflow. python. pywrap tensorflow internal import. mod imp. load module ' pywrap tensorflow internal', fp, pathname, description. return load dynamic name, filename, file. return load spec. ImportError: DLL load failed: The specified module could not be found. Traceback most recent call last: File model builder test. py, line 20, in. import tensorflow as tf. from tensorflow. python. tools import module util as module util. from tensorflow. python import pywrap tensorflow. raise ImportError msg. ImportError: Traceback most recent call last: from tensorflow. python. pywrap tensorflow internal import. mod imp. load module ' pywrap tensorflow internal', fp, pathname, description. return load dynamic name, filename, file. return load spec. ImportError: DLL load failed: The specified module could not be found. Failed to load the native TensorFlow runtime. See LINKLINK. help me with issue ASAP please. As best as I can tell, this module CODESCODES comes from the CODESCODES package, so I would focus on ensuring its proper installation. You might try CODESCODES. I had the same issue and It actually worked for me. seems like there it was craving for an update. Thank you. Worked like a charm dude! thanks for this solution. DID U GET THE SOLUTION FOR THIS ERROR? EVEN IM STUCK WITH THIS ERROR Himani3344 did you resolve the CODESCODES issue? This output seems unrelated to the discussion which is focused on an issue relative to CODESCODES. There are infinite ways a Kernel error in jupyter notebook can rear its head so you might be better off creating a new issue specific to a failure with pycocotools. after pip install upgrade jupyter client works fine for me Solved for me. CODESCODES. installs: certifi 2020.1 py38 0 156 KB. pywin32 227 py38he774522 1 5.6 MB. CODESCODES. installs: decorator 4.2 py 0 14 KB. entrypoints 0.3 py38 0 11 KB. ipython genutils 0.0 py38 0 40 KB. jupyter client 6.2 py 0 82 KB. jupyter core 4.3 py38 0 98 KB. libsodium thumbs down.16 h9d3ae62 0 416 KB. pyzmq thumbs down 8.1 py38ha925a31 0 407 KB. traitlets 4.3 py38 0 138 KB. zeromq 4.1 h33f27b4 3 10.6 MB. Version: 1.44.2 system setup. Commit: ff915844119ce9485abfe8aa9076ec76b5300ddd. Date: 2020 04 thumbs down 6T16:36:23.138Z. Electron: 7.11. Chrome: 78.3904.130. Node. js: 12. V8: 7.279.23 electron. OS: Windows NT x64 10.18363. Python extension version 2020.71659 2 April 2020. Fixes this issue raised by win32api. LINKLINK. ImportError: DLL load failed while importing win32api: The specified module could not be found. Unhandled error. but I get this error. Consider using the CODESCODES option or check the permissions. Sir My laptop is ASUS X510U. I've installed Anaconda and i opened jupyter notebook but it is showing Connection failed. LINKLINK. LINKLINK. LINKLINK. Sir i hope you could resolve the issue Asap. I am facing Kernel Error and code is not running. It is moving to next cell when I click run. Plz help. CODELCODEL. You might try taking a look at LINKLINK and the surrounding comments instructions. step 2 command: conda activate location of your env folder. step 3 command: python m ipykernel install user. worksconda install pywin32 resolved the issue for me. This worked for me like a charm kevin bates. I'm running latest version. And the notebook is starting but I'm not able to execute anything I tried like 2+3 also but nothing is going. And kernel is not starting. hi nani samireddy I'm assuming this latest issue is related to your this issue you amended at about the same time: LINKLINK. kevin bates. If codes are not visible then you can use your desktop or laptop for better visualization. Here is commands that are used in the video. step 2 command: conda activate location of your env folder. step 3 command: python m ipykernel install user.