Hi, When opening any jupyter notebook, even one with no code in, I get the 'Dead kernal' message: My terminal window shows the following: The port 8888 is already in use, trying another port. enabled. enabled. ✓ nbpresent HTML export ENABLED. ✗ nbpresent PDF export DISABLED: No module named 'nbbrowserpdf'. Serving notebooks from local directory: Users jedgecombe. 0 active kernels. The Jupyter Notebook is running at: LINKLINK. Use Control C to stop this server and shut down all kernels twice to skip confirmation. Notebook Dropbox Python AB testing template ab test template. ipynb is not trusted. Kernel started: 8743e528 acb5 488f 8e46 456675500373. 404 GET kernelspecs Python 20 logo 64x64. png:1 25.64ms referer LINKLINK. Traceback most recent call last: File Users jedgecombe anaconda3 lib python3.5 runpy. py, line 184, in run module as main. main, mod spec. File Users jedgecombe anaconda3 lib python3.5 runpy. py, line 85, in run code. exec code, run globals. File Users jedgecombe anaconda3 lib python3.5 site packages ipykernel main. py, line 2, in. from ipykernel import kernelapp as app. File Users jedgecombe anaconda3 lib python3.5 site packages ipykernel kernelapp. py, line 98, in. ConnectionFileMixin: TypeError: metaclass conflict: the metaclass of a derived class must be a non strict subclass of the metaclasses of all its bases. KernelRestarter: restarting kernel 1 5. Traceback most recent call last: File Users jedgecombe anaconda3 lib python3.5 runpy. py, line 184, in run module as main. main, mod spec. File Users jedgecombe anaconda3 lib python3.5 runpy. py, line 85, in run code. exec code, run globals. File Users jedgecombe anaconda3 lib python3.5 site packages ipykernel main. py, line 2, in. from ipykernel import kernelapp as app. File Users jedgecombe anaconda3 lib python3.5 site packages ipykernel kernelapp. py, line 98, in. ConnectionFileMixin: TypeError: metaclass conflict: the metaclass of a derived class must be a non strict subclass of the metaclasses of all its bases. It tries to restart 5 times so some repeated code from above then shows the following: Kernel 8743e528 acb5 488f 8e46 456675500373 died, removing from map. ERROR: root: kernel 8743e528 acb5 488f 8e46 456675500373 restarted failed! Kernel deleted before session. 410 DELETE api sessions d129aa7e fc50 4cfd 9e5d aab57ff7b49e:1 1.74ms referer LINKLINK. I've tried pip uninstalling and re installing, also tried this with conda but no luck and can't see similar problems online. Would be extremely grateful for any help! Can you try uninstalling all of: ipykernel. ipython. jupyter client. jupyter core. traitlets. ipython genutils. And then install again. If you're doing this inside a conda env, it might be easiest to create a new environment and start from scratch. Also, if you're going to install with conda, run CODESCODES to clean up conda caches before you start. fixed it! Thank you so much I've been searching for hours for an answer! Really appreciate it. You're welcome. For the record, my guess is that it was incompatible versions of some of those packages being installed. It probably wasn't necessary to reinstall them all, but it's easier to do that than try to work it out more closely. thanks so much, i 've tried several solutions, but didn't work until i found uninstall ipykernel, and reinstalled it, it worked, thanks. Brilliant, worked straight away. Cheers. JonnyI am trying to work with jupyter notebook, but when I open a file I receive the following error: The kernel has died, and the automatic restart has failed. It is possible the kernel cannot be restarted. If you are not able to restart the kernel, you will still be able to save the notebook, but running code will no longer work until the notebook is reopened. In the CMD I see the following: Copy paste this URL into your browser when you connect for the first time, to login with a token: LINKLINK. I have tried to uninstall and then reinstall the modules you've mentioned. However, I was not able to solve the problem. any ideas? THANKS! I can not fix this problem 😢 It must be a keras specific issue, tensorflow alone works fine on my machine but keras keeps crashing it. LINKLINK. i am having this issue whenever i try to run keras or tensorflow it keeps crashing while its working perfectly with other libraries. Remove the ipykernel using CODESCODES. and then resinstall with lower version with CODESCODES. Worked for me. thankyou so much thumbs up. if anyone facing the issue regarding. kernel failure. CODESCODES. you can see kernel working properly in jupyter. it worked for me. if you're using anaconda then run this in anaconda prompt conda clean tipsy then conda install the package. for for example if you're working with Numpy package, then run conda install numpyIn my case, When I tried running the cells, they were working fine untill reached to the training cell, where the kernel showed an error: LINKLINK. However, the jupyter notebook looks like: LINKLINK. Any help will be greatly appreciated. thanks a lot. i have a problem about dead kernel. but it solvedI got that problem, I first CODESCODES then CODESCODES. I got errors: CODESCODES. I install 'traitlets' by: CODESCODES successfully. but then I type CODESCODES. CODESCODES. I guess Conda installed libraries are not accessible to your ipykernel which is installed using pip. Install it using CODESCODES. I did try with CODESCODES but still raising that error. LINKLINK. Hi, I followed again the instruction made by takluyver and it's working now, thanks allThanks takluyver. Just reinstalling the ipykernel did the trick. I think what takluyver is trying to say in his above post is that, try to reinstall these libraries one by one and hopefully it'll resolve the problem don't just panic when you see a bunch of libraries re installation tackle them one by one. And I would personally suggest to go with the ipykernel first. Other than that, if you're getting an error like this: failed to create cublas handle: CUBLAS STATUS ALLOC FAILED. Then try allowing memory growth: config. gpu options. allow growth True. session tf. Session config config. Taken from link LINKLINK. Commented by shingte. Cheers! I've tried every fix recommended here and none of them have worked. I got the same issue. Tried all of this but none worked. Trying to run the python code in jupyter notebook gave a new error The kernel appears to have died. It will restart automatically. By googling this error I found a new solution: pip install tensorflow 1. I've tried to install other versions of tensorflow before, but they didn't do the trick. Also make sure to have the latest version of numpy. pip install upgrade numpyTo augment takluyver's helpful note: CODELCODEL. Only uninstalling installing this single library CODESCODES seems to be enough. Thanks, I tried updating ipykernel and it works again now! Hello, Guy, i solve the problem with this command. CODESCODES. CODESCODES. CODESCODES. in case it helps someone, my similar problem is solved by running the followings that I had seen somewhere else: on Ubuntu terminal: jupyter kernelspec list. rm r home me. local share jupyter kernels python3. python m ipykernel install user. Hello, I have tried every fix recommended and none of them solved the issue. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks in advanceHi adi5krish Since these kinds of issues can manifest themselves in a million different ways, it might be helpful to get specific information. Could you please provide the following and perhaps others will have some helpful ideas? Thanks. What python version, conda, etc. and operating system? The output of CODESCODES. Reproduced with CODESCODES enabled. The complete console output of the Notebook server with CODESCODES enabled. Hii kevin, The python version i am using is 3.9 and the operating system i am running in is Windows 10. This is the output i am getting when i run jupyter kernelspec list is. Available kernels: I am sorry, i couldn't understand what exactly you meant about reproduced with debug enabled. I am sharing the error i am getting when i try to run the code. LINKLINK. Let me know if you need anything else. I'm sorry, I should have been more clear. If you start notebook as follows: CODESCODES, it will produce debug output. That said, I doubt we're going to see much more in the console, but it never hurts. It looks like your kernel knows something about tensorflow and gpus. Is it getting this idea based on the execution of a cell? Or is something baked into your CODESCODES stanza of the kernelspec? I suspect the former, which would imply the kernel is starting up, but then some action presumably the cell that just executed is causing the kernel process to die. Notebook server then detects that the kernel process is no longer running and enters its auto restart sequence. Unless others have more direct advice, I suggest you try to narrow things down by starting from a base configuration and adding things like tensorflow, then gpu, etc. until the kernel dies. LINKLINK. Don't know what is happening before it was just fine. I tried a reinstall of anaconda but didn't helped. I've the same issue. In the command prompt I saw the CODESCODES issue after that just ran CODESCODES than worked for me. conda clean tipsy by itself worked for me, thank you! did you get the solution? if yes please revert back to me. I tried to continue working on an Ipython in another PC, but even after doing pipenv's, I still get the kernel died issue. what's more, I uploaded the said IPython file to Google Colab, and it's still dying inside there too. Very strange. Getting the same error. Not using conda. Tried everything above but no luck. Any further idea? Now I face the problem of dead kernel in jupyter notebook when I reach 43 epoch because there is 50 epoch in my code. It took two nights to reach 43 epoch by using two GPUs. I run it two times but it didn't work. I want to get the last epoch. Please advise me what I need to do. Hi may phyu this sounds very frustrating. Unfortunately, there isn't much to go on here. You'll need to figure out why the kernel is dying after 43 epochs. Is the kernel out of resources? In both runs, has it died after the 43rd epoch? If so, is there anything special about 43 besides being one more than 42 the answer to Life, the universe and everything! Do you have access to other resources that better support your training run? How does the notebook kernel come into play relative to the epochs? Notebooks are typically interactive perhaps converting the code into a straight python application is better suited for this situation at this point? Is the kernel running local to the Notebook server? Is the Notebook server kernel running in a container environment? Should you decide to run your current experiment again via Notebook, I would restart the Notebook server with the CODESCODES flag and capture the command console's output redirect to a file, etc. Then, assuming the kernel dies again, include that command console output all of it! in a response. Good luck. conda uninstall ipykernel. them conda install ipykernel. solved my resolve LINKLINK. igot this error please help me. LACoderDeBH. Your so called command removed all my updated anaconda packages. I wish I could kill you. in my case. it is saying that. LINKLINK. can anyone help me. plzzzzzzzzzzzzzzRe install The following. ipykernel. ipython. jupyter client. jupyter core. traitlets. ipython genutils. wrote: do you mean uninstalling and installing. Yess exactly. And try working in a conda environmemt. wrote: bro make a new env then reinstall it works. Tried all the options didn't work. Ran notebook with Python3 worked for me. CODESCODES. LINKLINK. I have mentioned the solution that worked for me with tensorflow 2. Where Do I exactly run this? Hello. I am also facing the same issue. The kernel in jupyter notebook is not starting. I tried upgrading all packages and also uninstalling and reinstalling all those mentioned above. But that too didn't work for me. Is there any other method to solve this? Thank You! Details: Windows 10. ipykernel version 5. python 3. tensorflow 2. keras 2. Please suggest me how to solve this. Hi Jyothsna131 please see LINKLINK. I suspect you're running out of resources and that terminates the kernel process. Is there any output produced in the notebook or in the console window in which you started the notebook server? You might try monitoring resources CPU Memory prior to the kernel process crashing. Does your notebook code run to completion outside of notebook for example, via python directly in that same environment? Kevin bates. Maybe that's the reason, sir. Thank you so much for your reply. Hi, I am using GCP compute engine for running jupyter notebook with 8 cores and 32 GB RAM. I am running Randimized Search CV for XGBoost with around 139999,754 data for training. I have been trying to fix this since long. Any Help would be greatful. thumbs up.